There's [music] a war nobody told
earnings.
>> What's really driving the market higher
has been extremely strong earnings.
>> If you look at the earnings we've
gotten, [music] they've been incredible.
>> The earning story is overpowering.
>> As far as kind of the main driver here,
it will continue to be AI.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from audience
worldwide. Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now. Coming into Friday, entering
May at all-time highs. The S&P 500
looking to build on the biggest monthly
advance since 2020 as Apple is wrapping
up mega-cap tech earnings topping
forecast. Investors are shaking off
elevated oil prices as the president
maintains the naval blockade.
>> this. People say that this market would
not be able to keep rallying if you saw
this blockade continue or if you saw the
street of rumors continue to be [music]
shut. Not only have we rallied, as you
just said, we saw the biggest rally for
a month going back to the height of the
pandemic when we were first were coming
back. We were learning about vaccines in
2020. If you take a look at semis,
[music] we're talking about the best
monthly rally going back to 2000. The
why cannot be found in the bond market.
The why cannot be found in the oil
market. The why cannot be found in the
currency market. It is squarely in the
earnings and [music] it is a
multi-faceted bunch of earnings that
have come in better than expected.
>> 10% move on the S&P 500, 16% move on the
Nasdaq 100. Phenomenal gains. [music]
The message from the market is pretty
simple. Developments in tech are far
more important to this market than
developments in the Middle East. [music]
>> Yeah, the fiscal stimulus of capex from
the biggest tech companies is pretty
tremendous and it's not just those
companies. It's also the ecosystem
around them. Whether it's Caterpillar,
whether it's some of the other
discretionary spending that is hinged
off of some of the stock gains that
we've seen that are tied to those tech
companies. Just putting this out there.
Only 12% of companies reported have
missed. That is the [music] lowest share
going back to 2021. That is so far in
this earning season. So, it is
broad-based even amid this concern about
the oil share.
>> And the names [music] you'd expect to do
well haven't done well at all. Exxon,
Chevron have done nothing for 2 months.
[music] Both of those companies report
earnings later on this hour throughout
this morning. Look out for that. I want
to start with this move in crude. Still
elevated here and the president have
committed to a naval blockade. [music]
In the president's own words, their
economy is crashing. The blockade is
incredible. Their economy is a disaster.
We'll see how long [music] they hold
out.
>> And interesting to see that we're so far
off some of the recent highs in crude. I
mean, I just want to point out that
we've reached 125 [music]
on Brent crude and we've come back to
111 even as this blockade shows no sign
of going anywhere and frankly people are
still having the same conversation
[music] of who blinks first. What is the
optimism baked into that? I know this is
a strange thing to say, but what is the
optimism baked into that that we're
going to reach a resolution sooner
especially as there are discussions and
reports of potential strikes by the US
in Iran to expedite some [music] of this
coming to the table.
>> appears to have three options on the
table right now. Maintain the blockade,
resume hostilities, or walk away. And
based on the communication we've
received from the administration
throughout this week, he seems far more
comfortable with option number one.
Maintain the blockade, [music] keep the
squeeze on, and see what happens next.
>> a lot of analysts are saying it really
is putting the [music] squeeze
economically on Iran. There are a number
of stories about how the currency is
completely tumbling, about how
hyperinflation [music] is really
pressuring the political environment.
That said, if you're dealing with an
actor that doesn't necessarily have
political goals in mind, how do you
negotiate and use tools of leverage? How
political are the decisions [music]
being made by the IRGC?
>> Equity features on the S&P 500 just
about positive to kick off the month of
May. Where did April go? Said this a few
times over the past few days. The first
quarter felt like a lifetime. April,
blink of an eye, gone.
>> Part of it is that in the beginning we
were talking about headline roulette
>> [music]
>> and we were talking about focusing on
different things. And this it was just a
fire hose. I mean, all I mean, it was
just an absolute fire hose and people
felt pretty good because they were
making money. So, if you have a firehose
of information that you could digest and
people feel like pretty good, well, time
flies.
>> Coming [music] up this hour, we'll catch
up with one of those equity market bulls
throughout all of this. Ajay
Rajadhyaksha of Barclays with stocks
coming off the biggest monthly gains
since 2020. We'll speak to Tom Forte of
Maxim Group as Apple sees impressive
sales growth. And Abigail what of UBS as
the US economy shows some real signs of
strength. We begin this hour with stocks
looking to build on fresh record highs.
Ajay Rajadhyaksha of Barclays writing,
"We were overweight risk assets last
week on the belief that momentum would
carry markets further, but we now turn
more neutral." Ajay joins us now for
more. Ajay, good morning. It's good to
see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Want to give you some credit first
because the person who's not here today
is Amrita. That's unfortunate because
she gave you so much criticism last time
for maintaining this bull case despite
the fact that we had the Strait of
Hormuz closed. Can we start there? Why
you were bullish before we get to the
turn to neutral? Why you were bullish
and why that worked out?
>> Right. So, that was March 27th. I looked
the data, looked up how much stocks are
up since then.
>> They're coming back on. [laughter]
>> But uh but better lucky than smart,
John. So, in in in this particular case,
uh I think two or three things the
markets were not factoring in then. The
first is the economies that mattered,
the United States and China in
particular, just had a much bigger
buffer. China has 1.2 billion barrels in
SPR. The United States is an energy
superpower.
The second thing, and we keep missing
this. This crisis is not 8 weeks old. It
is 5 weeks old. For the first 3 weeks,
you still had tankers that had left
Hormuz that were landing on shores, you
know, so people tend to forget that.
And the third is that the starting point
collectively for the world oil markets
was looser than people realize. Last
year, we had nearly 700 million barrels
of inventory built up. Hormuz matters,
but it's a much slower-moving story than
mar- markets just got ahead of
themselves. And then you had the power
of earnings remind them that, well, you
know, let's not get carried away.
>> So, we had a big cushion, bigger than
people thought.
>> That's right.
>> We've worked through some of that.
You've now turned neutral. Walk us
through Walk us through why you've
developed a more slightly negative view
on this market.
>> And and the reason is because the pace
at which inventories are now coming
down, the first three week cushion is
gone, right? The outage is about 10 11
12 million barrels a day. We are drawing
down global inventories at 80 to 90
million barrels. It seems like you a
week. It seems like you said that the
president is going to continue with this
tactic. That means in another two to
four weeks if we continue here, no
hostilities,
>> Sure.
>> but at the same time no oil flowing
through Hormuz, it is going to start to
matter. That's what I'm you know, trying
to
>> This is slightly different, Brahma, to
what we were talking about. Consensus
right now on the street is it doesn't
matter. The only thing that matters is
tech, and that's what's got us here.
What I'm hearing right now is that's
about to change.
>> And frankly, that it has mattered. It
just didn't matter in the same kind of
way that people had expected. And you're
starting to see that a little bit in
some of the earnings coming through
where people are saying, "Well,
component parts are getting more
expensive, and that's the reason why
they have to raise more money." And that
is going to pressure us with the capex
that we keep hearing about.
>> the dominoes fall? You clearly think
we're close to a tipping point. Where do
you expect to see it show up first?
>> I think tipping point is still
overstating it. I would not be outright
short risk. Like I said, the weight of
earnings is still too strong, but I do
think that momentum's carried us in the
last two weeks two weeks. No one wanted
to be short earnings going into
Wednesday for good reason. I mean, the
earnings were blowout strong. People are
not questioning AI capex the way they
were three months ago, you know, it's
it's it's viability.
Um
I think we just trade around these
ranges and probably stay like that until
we have clarity on Iran. Then we take
another leg upwards. That's the It's not
as clear-cut a message as a month ago,
Jonathan, but here we are.
>> How much session is built in the fact
that we just saw the best monthly gain
for the S&P 500 since 2020, and we
reached cycle highs on benchmark yields
around the world at a time where people
are really worried about inflation, and
they're really worried about the central
bank response to it.
>> There is a little bit of tension in
equities, but I think it's more a bond
story in itself. Just an outright bond
story. There is not a part of the
duration market globally in the 10 to 15
year sector that I would touch with a
barge pole. John genuinely.
>> [laughter]
>> Because you know,
the United States, the United Kingdom,
Japan, France, it's not just the US, you
know, in every economy fiscal profiles
are worsening quickly. Inflation
profiles at least for 2026 will worsen.
And there's no political will anywhere
to do anything about it. We used to have
this debt clock outside Times Square,
remember? We just ran out of numbers and
we no longer It's not like our debt
profile improved.
>> Okay. Okay, so so this is the reason why
Fitch raised some concerns yesterday
about the US and its rating, especially
given the fact that we have debt
profiles right up there with, say,
Senegal and Mozambique, but actually
they actually are better than us. But
I'm just wondering from your
perspective, at what point that
challenges just how much further some of
the equity valuations can run just
simply because
we are going to be entering a new regime
if other people also don't want to touch
this with a 10-foot pole.
>> I I think for the next month Iran, and I
know I come from a place where I
downplayed Iran a month ago, but at this
point for the next month what happens in
Iran will matter more for the equity
markets. But if you have a decisive
breakout, if 10s in the US go to say
4.75 to 5%, that I think is the level at
which the equity markets will pay
attention and not in a positive fashion.
We still have some time. If you get a
bond story here, it is much more likely
to come out of Japan or France or the
United Kingdom right now than the US.
>> Japan intervened in the FX market. What
was your reaction to that yesterday?
>> I was not surprised. They have said that
160 is the is their line in the sand.
It's been But
you speak about tensions. There's a
fundamental tension here, which is that
the Central Bank of Japan by every
metric except history, except for the
fact that they're coming out of 30 years
of deflation, right? Is much far much
further behind the inflation curve than
any other major central bank. And they
still are incremental in their process.
The Ministry of Finance can do as much
as it can. But ultimately, there's an
economic underlying tension here, which
is not going
>> It begs the question. You're fighting a
terms of trade shock right now. Why
aren't you hiking interest rates if
you're worried about the currency?
>> Not immediately. I don't think enough
that you and I are here discussing why
markets are down 10% because of the
terms of because of the terms of trade
shock. But it is a slow-moving thing,
and it's not possible
>> Well, they're about to do something
crude as well. Have you seen this
headline from Japan overnight? Oh, this
is crazy. We are always ready to act
regarding crude oil futures
transactions. That from a Japanese
official overnight.
>> used to, you know, absolutely owning the
market, so why not try it again? I do
want to just finish up with not just the
manipulation of markets, but why the
dollar hasn't strengthened more? Because
we keep seeing that the US economy
surprises to the upside. The central
bank is getting a bit more hawkish on
the margins of people had expected even
as you see a little bit more of a dovish
read in some of the other places,
whether it's Japan or Europe. Why is the
dollar doing nothing?
>> So, for dollar bulls, this crisis has
been humbling. There's no question,
right? This crisis was tailor-made for
the dollar. We are a gigantic energy
superpower. The two big markets that
form the dollar basket, the RMB and the
euro, are not. They're giant energy
importers. And as as as you said, the
dollar struggled. And I think the reason
is not because the world is shunning
dollar assets at all, remotely. Not
treasuries. Last year, US treasuries
were the best-performing long bond in in
in in the developed world.
If you want AI exposure, you have to be
in the US, or you can take your chances
in China. So, that's not it. It's just
that people are increasingly increasing
their dollar hedges. They're no longer
willing to take a flyer on the dollar.
That's the thing that has changed over
the last year to 2 years from a 20-year
journey. I think that's it.
>> So, you don't really like the bond
market. You're cautious on equities.
What do you like right now?
>> I'm
All right. So, I would still hide
in MAG 6 if if you ask me
>> MAG 6, which is the one that's not in
the MAG 7 anymore. What Who gets Who
gets chopped off?
>> you're putting me on the spot like this.
>> said MAG 6. You know,
>> I would put Tesla a little bit behind
that.
>> Tesla's to one side.
>> Right.
>> Any particular reason for that?
>> I'm never going to be able to make it
out of
>> [laughter]
>> I'm looking at forward valuations. I'm
looking at free cash flows. You know,
I'm looking at all of the things that,
you know, that are fundamental.
>> Okay.
>> And the other six just make a lot more
money. That's literally the the biggest
reason. But I I I I think despite
everything I've said, I think for now
the European equity markets have gotten
ahead of themselves. The US is not. The
front end of the US bond curve is still
reasonable. I don't think the the Bank
of the Federal Reserve is going to hike,
no matter what.
>> By the front end, you mean twos?
>> Twos. That's right.
>> Okay.
>> But there's slim pickings out there
after a 14% rally after the best April
in a long time.
>> Pretty phenomenal stuff and well called
by you and the team, sir. Thanks for
being here. We appreciate it. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> AJ Rajadhyaksha there of Barclays
following a 10% gain on the S&P 500 for
the month of April.
>> Follow the earnings. He was the one
saying it and ultimately the most
important thing that he said that I
thought really a lot of people haven't
talked about. We have had a delayed
crisis. It's really only been 5 weeks,
not 8 weeks. So, maybe the real pain
starts about now.
>> when we have one of those conversations,
you go home, you listen back to it. Just
had one of those conversations.
>> I feel like that's every time with you.
>> Yeah. Fantastic work as always. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Yohara Arnold has more. Hey, Yohara.
>> Good morning, John.
President Donald Trump says he's
sticking with a naval blockade of
Iranian ports. His comments [music]
coming after oil hit a wartime high.
Iran's new supreme leader casting doubt
[music] on the likelihood of a deal,
vowing not to give up the country's
nuclear or missile technologies.
The president says he'll remove some
tariffs on whiskey following King
Charles' visit. Trump saying he'll
remove the restrictions so Scotland and
Kentucky can start dealing again.
Tariffs on Scotch have been a point of
contention between the US and the UK.
And the longest partial government
shutdown ever is now over. President
Trump [music] signing a bill to fund
most of the Department of Homeland
Security except for immigration
enforcement. Republicans plan to pass
those funds separately in a budget bill
that will not require Democratic votes.
That's your rumor brief, John.
>> Yohana, thank [music] you. A diplomatic
breakthrough down in Washington, D.C.
Well worth the trip.
It's like King [laughter] Charles.
>> I mean,
it's like why of all things that we're
talking about, we're talking about the
fire hose of news, whether it's one
person invading a park, whatever. It's
like Scotch.
>> Scotch, done.
>> Anyway.
>> Okay. Need a few of those. I think
everyone does. Up next on the program,
>> [music]
>> Apple's strong quarter.
>> The quarter looks really good, above
expectations in almost every metric.
They're buying up all the memory they
can to ensure that they don't run out,
and that's going to put a lot of
pressure on their competitors.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Tom Forte
of Maxim Group from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
We've got a big hour of energy and it's
coming up. Exxon in about 15 minutes
time. Just heard from Chevron, upside
surprise. Adjusted EPS for the first
quarter, 141. The estimate, 90 cents.
That stock doing nicely [music] in the
premarket. Exxon coming later. After
that, ISM data, manufacturing for the
month of April. Look out for that at
10:00 a.m. Eastern [music] time. Just a
read another read on the economy that so
far is doing pretty well. The equity
market doing better than good. Stocks
through April went through some of the
numbers. The S&P [music] up 10%, the
Nasdaq up 16. Bramo talked about chips.
It's been a big story for us over the
last month or so. The semi index just
had a 38% monthly gain in April. [music]
The biggest month since the year 2000.
>> And earnings still outperformed and
that's what people keep pointing to. The
idea that demand is just insatiable and
existential. Key point though, a lot of
different tech companies point to
component costs going up. With the ISM
manufacturing, with some of the earnings
from the oil giants, how much does capex
start increasing as everybody races for
the same thing?
>> That's something to look forward to a
little bit later. That conversation's
going to pick up ahead of that data
point at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time. That's
tons [music] of crude. Brent and WTI
still elevated here. Brent crude at 111,
WTI around 105. We're up about 9/10 of
1% on Brent crude this morning. That's
keeping yields elevated, too. Your
10-year around 440 [music] still, up a
single basis point. Twos at 388 also up
a single basis point. We [music] asked
Ajay of Barclays, what do you like right
now? Don't seem to like bonds. Don't
seem to like the equity market as much.
Front end of the yield curve. Don't
believe the Fed's going to hike twos
[music]
offer value here.
>> We hear that a lot. Ultimately, if you
don't have conviction on anything else,
have conviction in almost 4% coupon
[music] that you can clip for the next
couple of years with the expectation
that most likely it won't go all that
much higher.
>> Let's talk about another central bank,
the agenda finance ministry in Japan.
Why isn't the BOJ hiking? Why is it all
about the finance ministry intervening?
This move, this drop off that you saw in
yesterday's session from 160 down to
[music] about 156, it holds at 156.54.
Nikkei the first to report that there
was some real intervention here, not
just the threat of it. We followed that
up here at Bloomberg, as well. It's the
final advisory if you want to escape and
they didn't give people very long to get
out, did they?
>> They gave about 12 hours and they spent
34 and 1/2 billion dollars to intervene
in this market. For what, I think?
Number one, it gives us a sense that 160
trillion is the line in the sand. And so
people are saying, "Okay, I better get
not that far away from that because you
don't want to fight the Japanese [music]
authorities." What is their goal though?
And to your point, the Bank of Japan
could have just hiked rates. Instead,
they're forced intervening to try to
prevent inflation from imported good
likes
>> [music]
>> goods like fuel and other commodities.
So, a question here, what's their limit
from basically putting up their money in
flames? [music]
>> You're fighting a ton of trades short.
Can you do that with one off
intervention in 24 hours? Maybe that
keeps some people on the side on the
other side of the trade just stepping
back a little bit cuz they don't want to
touch this right now. But ultimately, if
you want a sustainable prolonged [music]
move, you've got to do something with
rates now. Or something corrects with
energy and you get bailed out on that
side of things.
>> The interesting footnote that I would
love to hear more information is that
Japan was doing this in tandem with
communications with the United States.
So, trying to understand exactly what
could be
>> [music]
>> behind all of this,
I would like a road map. Maybe someone
can come up with a cloud model.
>> Just want to all spell it out for you.
>> 100%.
>> Not that I'm blaming you. Here in the
United States, of course, a focus on
other things and it's technology. A
massive week of tech earnings. Under
surveillance this morning, Apple's
strong quarter.
>> The quarter looks really good, above
expectations in almost every metric.
Every company that's not doing something
with AI, so it's consumer, enterprise,
electronics are facing severe margin
pressure because of the surge in memory
prices. I think they're being
strategically very smart with what
they're doing. They're buying up all the
memory they can to ensure that they
don't run out. And that's going to put a
lot of pressure on their competitors.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Apple's rising after posting
double-digit sales growth and delivering
a better than expected revenue forecast.
Tom Forte of Maxim Group with a buy
rating and a $300 price target on the
stock joins us now for more. Tom,
welcome to the program. What did you
like about what you saw yesterday
afternoon?
>> Yes, so Jonathan, I think there was a
lots of like although there was a lot of
kind of everything in that Apple report
and the special guest John Turnus on the
call was a bonus and a surprise.
So, what I really liked was that
consolidated net sales exceeded
expectations despite the fact that
iPhone sales slightly missed
and sales in China slightly missed. But,
I'm willing to give a pass on the iPhone
and China when considering you've had
two consecutive quarters of north of 20%
revenue growth for the iPhone and nearly
30%
revenue growth for two quarters ago in
China.
So,
I think that that's those are some good
numbers uh despite things I think you
could point at with some small level of
concern.
>> So, tell them we'll get to that in a
moment because I know Lisa's got
questions about costs and what's
happening with supply chains. Just on
leadership, you mentioned Turnus. Is it
new leadership, same approach, or do you
expect some changes?
>> So, Jonathan, I thought it was
interesting. The other thing they had in
the quarter is that they're abandoning
net cash neutral while at the same time
announcing a new incremental 100 billion
of buyback. So, I know you've talked
about Tim Cook as being the king of
buybacks. So, John Turnus will still
have a lot of dry powder to buy back
shares. Um
so, I think yeah, I think the story here
is still quite good and uh you know, I
think that they'll still be returning a
lot of money to shareholders uh despite
the changing of the guard on September
1st.
>> Tom, there's some contradictory messages
within these earnings. On one hand, they
built up their R&D uh R&D spending about
34% in the quarter. This is a departure
uh since they've maintained a pretty
subdued spending profile in this area,
but they also are building cash. Do you
think they're preparing to buy
something, to pick up assets in a
downturn? Do you think that they're
trying to build something on their own?
Are you getting any tea leaves?
>> So, Lisa, I absolutely think that Apple
historically is almost always build
versus buy. If they're buying, they're
usually buying talent.
Uh so, I think that it's clearly to
build. Uh John Ternus again as the next
CEO suggests they're still a
hardware-first company given that he was
SVP of hardware engineering before being
named uh apparent heir to Tim.
So, I would say that they're more
interested in building. And then the
other side of net cash neutral,
abandoning that, is that they said they
want to make sure that they have the
ability to invest as much as they
believe is necessary while still
returning money to shareholders.
So, I think they're clearly investing.
>> Tom, about the component costs as John
was mentioning, this is something that
keeps coming up on earnings call from
calls from all the big tech players.
They're going to increase their spend in
part because everything is just getting
more expensive. Is that still the same
kind of spending, or does it become less
beneficial in the eyes of investors?
>> Well, I think for Apple, there's a
couple of things that are working in its
favor. When you have this strong of
performance from the iPhone 17, I think
they're able to generate better margins
given the strong unit sales. When you
look at that guidance for gross margin
of 47 1/2 to 48 1/2, that's really good
given the higher memory costs. And I
think the other thing working in its
favor now versus say 10 years ago is 18%
give or take of their sales comes from
higher margin services. So, I think they
are more buffeted when you have a
material increase in component costs
like we're seeing right now with memory.
>> Tom, just finally, the buybacks. Over
the course of Tim Cook's tenure leading
this company, what are we at now? 700,
800 billion dollars in buybacks?
>> I still like to think of it as 350
billion market cap that turned into a 4
trillion market cap. Yes, buybacks
played a role. Tim did an amazing job.
Uh so, I think that the thing I'll be
looking for in John's tenure is, like
Tim, will he be able to sustain the life
cycle of the iPhone? Five years from
now, will we still talk about the iPhone
as 33 to 50% of revenue? And I think
that's an important, uh you know,
benchmark for John, and something I'll
be following closely.
>> I'm not playing down the achievements.
Don't worry, Tim. They're phenomenal
achievements.
>> Tim, thank you. It's a four-day
>> Poster child of the CEO after the
founder, John.
>> Tim, very true. Appreciate it. Thank you
very much. They've done great work. The
stock is up again this morning.
>> Like close to 3%.
>> Yeah, and they're running out of
product, right? This cheaper than
expected nano, micro, whatever computer
that costs $500. They can't get them in
the stores quickly enough, and this is
becoming a problem. So, it's
>> So, the Mac Minis.
>> Mac Minis? Is that what they're called?
>> Isn't that what they're called?
>> There's another one, too, that's like
Neo, Neo, Neo Mac. I'm Clearly, I'm
really up on my stuff.
>> Likewise.
>> This is really great.
>> Based on this conversation. So, we'll
move on. It's other things. Talk about
energy. Bloomberg's Vincent Piazza with
energy giants reporting earnings. Great
numbers from Chevron just moments ago,
at least on EPS beating expectations.
Exxon coming up in just a moment. Plus,
your high risk got your morning movers.
Memory stocks slide following an April
surge. We'll get into that in just a
moment. From New York City, you're
watching [music] Bloomberg TV.
Full time for the month of April, the
final score. Check it out. Up 10% on the
S&P 500, biggest monthly [music] gain
since November 2020. On the Nasdaq 100,
up 16%,
biggest monthly advance since October
2002. [music]
Nasdaq futures this morning just
slightly softer, down a tenth of 1%. On
the S&P 500, slightly positive, up a
tenth of 1%. That's the price action for
stock markets. Let's get you some single
names, some morning [music] movers.
Yohara has more. Hey Yohara.
>> Hi John, we start with Apple. Those
shares are rising nearly 3% in the
pre-market on a forecast that blew
>> [music]
>> past estimates and make no mistake,
Apple making it clear that it's last
quarter would have been even stronger if
it weren't for those supply constraints,
especially around memory. And this is
interesting, Bloomberg Intelligence
saying that dynamic could be what's
driving Apple's gains in China as higher
memory costs force its competitors there
to raise their prices. And sticking with
that memory theme, we are seeing the
likes of Western Digital and SanDisk
down after [music] earnings, even after
they delivered a beat and a raise, but
the bar was high because
Western Digital is up some 130%
year-to-date and [music] SanDisk up 300%
year-to-date. And we end on Chevron, a
surge in oil prices tied to the war
helped power earnings there, so shares
are up nearly 1.8%. The company
>> [music]
>> blowing past estimates as stronger crude
prices helped offset production hits it
experienced from the war. Plus, it was
[music] helped by that Hess deal and
those fast and that fast-growing Guyana
asset. John.
>> Yohara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Similar story just from Exxon
right now, similar price action, too.
Exxon [music]
first quarter adjusted EPS 116, the
estimate 96 cents. That's another upside
surprise.
>> When you take a look at the numbers
here, higher energy prices added 1.7
billion dollars to earnings during the
quarter. That's compared to 400 million
dollars of a decline from war-related
production outages. They estimate that
about 15% of their production is offline
as a result of some of the conflicts in
the Persian Gulf. A question here about
how much this market has discounted the
boom for a lot of the oil companies in
the United States from higher oil
prices. We're seeing it in real time
right now.
>> These stocks had great first few months
2026 then faded pretty quickly once this
naval blockade started and once the
Iranians blocked the Strait of Hormuz.
They've done nothing for the last 2
months or so. We'll talk about that in
just a moment. The stock is up in the
pre-market by close to 2% this morning.
Upside surprise on Chevron, similar
story on Exxon. And a rate down this
morning, Apple delivering a stronger
than expected revenue forecast for the
third quarter. The company warning of
increasing memory chip costs and
months-long shortages of Mac computers.
Elsewhere, the president vowing to
maintain pressure on Iran with a naval
blockade near the Strait of Hormuz.
>> Their
economy is crashing. The blockade is
incredible. The power of the blockade is
incredible. They're not getting any
money from oil.
And
hopefully it can be worked out very
soon.
>> Tehran facing threat of exhausting its
crude storage space and being forced to
cut production. And the president saying
he's unbothered by J. Powell's decision
to stay on the FOMC after his term as
chair ends.
>> No, I I don't care if he stays on or he
stays on. That doesn't I just want to
make sure that Kevin became the head.
Uh
it's very unusual that they stay on, you
know. I I predicted he would cuz you
know, who's going to hire him? He's a
negative I think he's a negative force.
>> Kevin Warsh is on track for Senate
confirmation as the next Fed chair,
something we've talked about just in the
last 24 hours since this announcement
from Chairman Powell in that news
conference. The administration
is not looking for a fight here. In
fact, based on the comments we've had
not just from the president but also
from the NEC director Kevin Hassett,
they're backing away.
Backing away and turning down the
temperature as much as they can.
>> So, the question really is why? Is this
because they want this to go away? They
have enough on their hands and they want
to deal with that. Is it because they're
concerned about the market's response to
some sort of prolonged fight that nobody
really wins? Or is this just operation
get Kevin Warsh in there and then we'll
reassess? And ultimately, the decision
to that will give people a sense of
whether this is a pause or whether this
is truly a change in tone. And maybe
we'll give Jerome Powell the confidence
that this might be actually some full
and complete transparent end to the
conflict.
>> get in their minds, so I don't know. But
it was a mistake. It was a mistake to go
after the institution in the way they
did when they had the opportunity to
reshape it in the way they wanted to.
And they've made sure now
that someone in the institution is going
to make it harder for them to do that.
Because this is not the situation they
had to be in. They could have had a
situation where Kevin Warsh was
confirmed, respectable candidate, would
have been on the FOMC, still going to be
on the FOMC by the time we get to June.
Plus, they would have had another seat
they could have filled with someone they
wanted to fill it with.
>> There were a lot of logical off-ramps
where they could have exited stage left
earlier in this tit-for-tat between the
Fed and this administration. They
haven't. That's why even though you are
completely correct, it was a mistake to
go after them, it was a mistake to
really engage in some sort of legal
battle that a lot of people wonder how
how much merit it actually has, and to
stick with it even after there are some
discussions around that.
That's why this is surprising. Why now?
>> On the margin, they've made it harder to
cut interest rates.
That's the ridiculous thing about all of
this. Let's turn back to the war in
Iran. The president vowing to keep up
the blockade even as the average cost of
a gallon of regular gasoline is well
over $4, and more than six in some
states including California. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall has the latest from
Washington. Hey Tyler.
>> Hey John, good morning. Well, higher gas
prices are definitely proving a
political liability as we head into the
midterms. Though this White House
maintains that they are highly confident
it will only be a short-term disruption
in their words when it comes to the
energy markets. The NEC director Kevin
Hassett said as much on this program
yesterday, but I have to say I was
pretty struck by the fact that when
Amory was pressing him on whether or not
the administration is considering any
additional tactics to help bring down
the price of retail gasoline, he only
touted things that have already been
done including that extension to the
Jones Act waiver. Because at this point
we haven't gotten any indication that
the standoff over the Strait of Hormuz
is easing. In fact, overnight there was
this post from Iran's president
reiterating what has been a consistent
demand that the US must lift its naval
blockade before talks resume calling it
intolerable. But as you
mentioned, President Trump touted it
just yesterday saying that the blockade
is incredible and that the US will
continue to try to squeeze Iranian oil
exports amid real questions about just
how much excess
crude storage capacity the country has.
Now, there is this new reporting from
the Wall Street Journal that the US is
renewing its pitch to allied countries
about deploying and joining a joint
force naval
force to help secure the Strait of
Hormuz, but it appears that the
sentiment is still the same that these
countries don't want to deploy any
additional assets until there is a
stronger ceasefire in place. Though
John, when asked yesterday by a reporter
about whether he is getting
antsy about ending the ceasefire, maybe
resuming the fighting, President Trump
says that nobody really knows where the
talks stand except himself and a couple
of other people.
>> Tanya Caldwell down in Washington.
Tanya, thank you. The squeeze continues.
111 on Brent, WTI at 105. Shares of
Exxon and Chevron rising in the
pre-market. Both companies reporting
earnings to beat Wall Street estimates.
Joining us now to discuss Vince Piazza,
senior equity analyst for oil and gas at
Bloomberg Intelligence. Vince, welcome
to the program. Where have the beats
come from? Because the price of crude
was higher, but production in some
places obviously has been cut.
>> Good morning. Yeah, thank you for having
me, John. So, you know, when you think
about the quarter, two things come to
mind. Price trumps volume. You know,
volume was down for both, but the
consistency of the upstream price
appreciation during the end of the
quarter definitely had the had the had
the benefit.
But also, the second thing, the second
important thing is the resiliency of the
model. Where have Exxon and Chevron
invested over the last several years and
that's in North American upstream and
that also is in Guyana both as a both of
those assets are in more stable less
geopolitical risk in those regions and
so therefore
those were an actual benefit to them
despite the turmoil out there in the
Middle East. Exxon and Chevron's
business models actually shining through
despite the timing differences, the the
impacts on the upstream side because of
the Middle East, the results speak to
that resiliency of the overall model.
>> Vince, one curious aspect of this is
some people have been calling for oil
companies to increase their production
to offset any of the lost barrels in the
Middle East. The Financial Times
reporting this morning that Exxon and
Chevron both have shunned those kinds of
calls saying we're already operating at
a pretty high volume and right now we're
in a good place. Do you think that there
is going to be increasing pressure for
the oil majors in the United States to
increase production or do you think that
they're in a good place to really have a
good balance going forward?
>> Yeah, thank you. That's a great
question. So when we talk to
the companies whether it's the
integrateds or the other independent
upstream companies, what we're hearing
is is that the investor base wants
capital discipline because if you look
at the prices farther out along the
curve, it is well below the prices that
we're seeing today and so capital
discipline,
controlled production, free cash flow
that goes to the investors in the form
of base dividends and buybacks, those
are the keys. The investor base does not
desire any incremental production growth
just for the sake of production growth
because there is still clouds in the air
in terms of the demand cadence for the
legacy fuels.
>> What are you looking for Vince in terms
of assessing the actual damage to assets
in Europe, Iran, given some of the costs
that have been put out there? Do you
think that we're going to get a better
sense of how long it will take, should
the conflict and should the fighting,
the the kinetic war stop, how long it
will take to rebuild and bring these
assets online?
>> So, when we think about it, uh we put it
in three buckets. What's been delayed,
what's been disturbed, and what's been
destroyed. Uh I think the first two
buckets have been pretty um uh
obvious that uh we have had significant
delays and disruptions, but from the
destruction standpoint, um outside of um
uh Qatar gas, there hasn't been
significant destruction of the actual
underlying assets. So, we think that um
in order to ramp up, it probably won't
take as long as some of the dire um
estimates are out there. So, I I I think
so far what we have here is a pretty
controlled environment. Here for the US,
the US operators are obviously going to
see a net benefit because, you know,
it's a much more stable environment
here. Um and and and and and also for
the most part, um we have uh a much more
stable um uh uh um
operating scheme uh for the upstream um
operators.
>> Hey, Vince, thanks for breaking it down.
We appreciate it. Vincent Piazza there
of Bloomberg Intelligence following the
numbers from Exxon and Chevron better
than expected this morning. What did he
say? Price trumps volume. Seems to be
the story so far. Looking at Exxon and
the way it closed at the end of
February, we've talked about this theme
a few times. Closed at the end of
February at 152.50. Some of these names
in the energy sector had massive starts
at the very beginning of the year, but
through March and April,
in total, haven't done much at all. We
closed yesterday at 154.33.
>> Does this launch a change uh where
people realize that price trumps volume
and think about the fact that these
companies are not boosting production?
What's the offset? Some people were
speculating, analysts were speculating
that if longer-term oil prices remained
above a certain level, say $90 into
December, into next year, then all of a
sudden there could be an incentive to
increase production. We're not hearing
that because ultimately they don't want
to spend more of their capital. That is
the message from shareholders, and
that's the message from some of these
executives.
>> Amor Inat with us this morning, you
might have noticed that. She'll be back
a little bit later. She's having a
lie-in, good for her. She's going to be
back later on this afternoon. She'll be
catching up with the CFO of Chevron.
Look out for that around 4:00 p.m.
Eastern time. Let's give you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Yohaira has more.
Hey, Yohaira.
>> Hey, John.
Nissan is scrapping plans to produce two
fully electric SUVs at a US factory. The
move is part of a broader rethink
[music] of its product strategy as it
looks to conserve cash. It also comes as
EV sales in the US [music] have been
slower than expected, especially after
President Trump eliminated tax credits.
Meta selling $25 billion of
investment-grade [music] bonds as shares
plunged yesterday on rising concerns
about its AI spending spree. [music]
Almost all the six tranches were priced
at higher risk premiums than at a sale
last than at a sale last October.
[music] The stock though, as you can
see, is down more than 7% year-to-date.
And as you all were discussing, we are
seeing [music] Exxon and Chevron shares
trading higher in the premarket. Both
companies reporting earnings that topped
Wall Street estimates in the first
quarter. Chevron saying [music] higher
oil prices helped offset production
outages. Exxon saying something similar.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yohaira, thank you. Thank you very much.
I would have taken the extra few hours
[music] in bed this morning, wouldn't
you?
>> No, I I actually
>> it confirmed as to whether that was
cleared? She was allowed to do that or
just fancied [music] an extra few hours
in bed this morning?
>> I'm working on a full investing tip look
through.
>> Okay, you find out. That's fine.
>> you know
>> I'm told that Amor Inat will be here a
little bit later on this afternoon to
conduct that interview. So,
>> I mean, what kind of questions
>> looking forward to that appearance.
>> We could have all like would you have
wanted that? What I mean, would you like
candy and rainbows?
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> Correct. [music]
>> I wanted what I wanted to do. Not that
it really matters what I wanted to do.
I wanted one of those things behind the
bed [music] like just a massive TV.
With this, right? And then just have a
camera there [music] just to sit up in
bed.
>> I would pay for that.
>> Just do the show down the barrel for 60
minutes.
>> Okay.
>> I sleep in this, Bremo. Ready to go.
>> Obviously. Clearly.
>> I'm nice on a program,
>> [music]
>> supercharging the US economy.
>> It's really strong data. We got
additional claims the lowest they've
been since the 1960s. We've got
government employment the lowest it's
been since the Second World War. We've
got all these positive movements getting
interest rates down. It could really
supercharge [music] the economy.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Abigail
Warner of UBS from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Welcome to May. [music] Equity futures
positive by a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500
on the Nasdaq down by a similar amount.
In the bond market, one of ten to fixed
income. Bring up twos, tens, [music] and
thirties and just look at twos. 388 on
twos this morning up a single basis
point. So, that's above where Fed funds
is. This market has decided this Fed is
[music] going nowhere and there's a
small risk they might have to hike. This
is the view from Mike Gapen of Morgan
Stanley. Now he expects the Fed to
maintain [music]
a hold for the rest of '26. Deutsche
Bank's Matthew Luzzetti the policy rate
is likely to stay unchanged this year.
BNP Paribas agrees we expect the Fed to
stay on hold
>> [music]
>> into '27. But James Egelhof over at BNP
says this, "We see a growing tail risk
that policy makers [music] could hike
this year if the unemployment rate
declines and the Strait of Hormuz
remains closed." [music]
>> We've heard him on before and asked him
about this and said, "What about the
political pressure to cut rates?" And he
said, "Well, yeah, this is stripping
that out." So, you know, that the one
thing that the market is baking in is
dovish predisposition of the Fed chair
coming in because of the administration
that will shun any thought of a rate
hike even if there are a couple of
economic conditions that are making it
through.
>> If you go through the year and you've
got Brent at 111, WTI at 105, and let's
say that stays with us into the fall,
[music] into the back end of '26, and
you've got jobless claims like the ones
we saw yesterday, and an unemployment
rate that stays closer to four than it
does 4.5%. [music]
You wonder where that would leave
inflation in this country and how this
Fed might respond to it.
>> I'm watching the back end of the yield
curve. This is the answer [music] to
that conundrum. If you see a yield curve
steepening that starts to really exert
itself over this economy,
>> [music]
>> do you get a Fed willing to hike rates?
Or, to Kevin Hassett's point yesterday,
do they start looking at things like the
balance [music] sheet to really work
with some sort of Treasury-Fed accord to
change the dynamic a little bit?
>> On the Savannah's this morning,
supercharging the US economy.
>> It's really strong data. We got initial
claims the lowest they've been since the
1960s. We got government employment the
lowest it's been since the Second World
War. [music] We've got all these
positive movements in terms of fiscal
responsibility and economic growth
moving forward. And so then, but we do
have this uh temporary disruption with
energy markets. Getting interest rates
down uh could really supercharge the
economy from where we are, but not
[music] be super inflationary.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US economy showing signs of strength
despite surging energy costs. Abigail
What if UBS writes, "We expect that
spending should still be a little
stronger in the second quarter, but will
depend on the offset between high
gasoline prices and tax refunds."
Abigail Don't just now for more. Abby,
welcome to the program. Is this economy
in a position to support higher prices?
>> Good morning. Thank you for having me.
Um yeah, so I think it's a it's a really
interesting point to raise, right? I
think when we look at the data that we
got yesterday, I think it's totally fair
to say that we had a relatively strong
nominal increase in spending in March,
but if you looked at kind of real
spending, it was actually down 0.1% over
the month when you consider that strong
inflation impulse through through the
March period. And I think when you look
at the kind of fundamentals for the
consumer, I think they look relatively
different depending on where you're
sitting in the income distribution. One
of the things we've seen in that kind of
you know, personal income and outlays
report kind of consistently is you've
essentially seen kind of slowing real
disposable income,
kind of okay pace of real spending kind
of annual terms.
But what you've seen is a saving rate
dipping lower, right? So yesterday the
savings rate dipped back down to 3.6%
the lowest it's been since October 2022.
And so I think with inflation pressures,
I think the the distribution of that's
going to be different across the income
spectrum. And I would say that what
we're seeing at the minute is kind of a
wealth effect potentially keeping
consumption going and despite some of
the slowing we did see in in the numbers
yesterday. So what does that mean for
the second half of this year, Abby, with
that in mind?
So I think, you know, one of the key
things coming into this year obviously
was that you could potentially have a
little bit more support for the consumer
from tax policy, right? I mean, we've
seen
a relatively significant rise in terms
of tax refunds flowing to households are
up kind of 15 to 20% versus kind of
where they were at this point last year.
And I think that's something that helps
kind of that buffer, right? I think that
buffers a little bit some of this kind
of energy price shock that we're seeing
through the second quarter. And so with
that, you know, we've basically got kind
of the strongest quarter of consumption
growth happening in this quarter. And
then I think a little bit of slowing
into the second half of the year when
you see kind of some of that kind of
some of the energy price kind of feeding
through. And you also see some of those
tax refunds essentially being spent away
by the lower income households
essentially.
>> Abigail, do you think that this is a
labor market that's in stasis or shows
signs of re-accelerating based on some
of the initial data from the likes of
ADP and the initial jobless claims.
>> Yes, so I think it's really challenging
at this juncture to get a really good
sense of the labor market. Obviously,
the kind of establishment survey data
have been incredibly volatile through
the first couple of months of the year
just given the kind of change in the
methodology that's being used by the
BLS. And we've also seen in the
unemployment rate, it's a little bit
hard to get a read because you know,
you've seen some shifts in terms of the
the labor force participation rate. With
that shift in participation, you know,
if you were to hold that stable, the
unemployment rate would have actually
risen to 4 and 1/2% rather than kind of
falling back to 4.3. So I think it's a
little bit challenging to get a good
read just now.
Now, but I think it's fair to say that,
you know, we haven't seen necessarily a
shift hiring initial claims or
continuing claims. You've seen relative
stability. You know, obviously the the
print this week in initial claims, there
was quite a drop within the week, but
these can be quite noisy from week to
week. And so when you smooth through, I
would say they're signaling a labor
market that's that's showing relative
signs of stability, not necessarily
weakening at this juncture or not
necessarily significantly improving at
this juncture is how I would read those
data.
>> Taking a step back to tie it all
together, Abigail, there's a real debate
right now about how much people are
starting to see the nodes of some sort
of cyclical recovery in the underlying
economy and how much we're just seeing
AI spend overwhelming absolutely
everything and distorting all signals.
Which do you think it is?
>> Yes, so I mean the data that we got
yesterday, the the Q1 GDP data, I think
the composition was really interesting.
Obviously, we're continuing to see that
slowing in consumption at 1.6% pace of
consumption in Q1 versus 1.9% in the
fourth quarter. And I think the real
standout yesterday, you know, as you're
noting there,
was the equipment side of the accounts,
the investment side. And when you look
at the investment that we're seeing in
the US, it is relatively narrowly driven
in terms of that tech AI CapEx spend
out. And I think, you know, the data
that we got this week in terms of the
core durable goods report, you know,
that would be consistent with that
potentially continuing. We had expected
that you would see a little bit of a
broadening out, I guess, in that
investment dynamic this year um because
of the expensing provisions in the big
beautiful bill act, potentially meaning
you see a little bit more traditional
CapEx coming through as well as that
kind of ongoing tech CapEx. And I think
you have seen a little bit of a
broadening out in terms of those durable
goods orders. Um but I think that's
something that we'll be watching just to
get a sense of whether we see kind of a
broadening versus kind of this just
ongoing AI tech theme, which really, you
know, was the standout in yesterday's um
GDP report.
>> Abby, thanks for being with us. It's
good to see you, as always. Abigail
Wozniak of UBS. That's been the story
coming into '26. Rate cuts in the
pipeline. CapEx for some of the biggest
companies on the planet. Tax refunds,
too. That's insulating this economy from
the stress in the commodity market.
>> going back to what point is it then
inflationary? We had uh Kevin Hassett
saying that it wasn't going to be
inflationary because of productivity
from sort of the artificial
intelligence. Are we hearing that,
though? Or are there's are are there is
this sort of the idea that potentially
people can absorb higher prices because
of the wealth effect, because they're
earning more money, and because they are
getting tax refunds, and that ultimately
maybe is what you're seeing in some of
the underlying data.
>> We played this game in '24, in '25.
What's happening with inflation? Is the
Fed on hold? What's happening with
inflation? Is the Fed on hold? Then
unemployment bet. And then at the end of
'24, they cut rates. The end of '25,
they cut interest rates. There's a sense
that you can feel it building just in
the consensus right now that this feels
different for a lot of people.
>> In terms of the sustainability of this
inflationary push, there has been a game
change. And when you start to talk to
analysts, I was thinking about Bob
Michele who came in. Buy bonds. There's
a shortage of bonds. And then you start
asking, do you buy long bonds here? And
he said things have changed a little bit
with respect to what's going on with the
oil prices, the straight of Hormuz. Wait
and see is the mode that everybody is
in. Who is the forward indicator for
that? Maybe the Truth Social feed coming
from President Trump.
>> Bob Michele has changed his view a
little bit. Neel Kashkari has changed
his view a little bit. Governor Waller
has changed his view a little bit as
well. It's notable. [music] The names
are building.
>> Yeah, when you have a fifth of the
world's oil shut in and other suppliers,
well, things change.
>> Up next on the program, Victoria
Fernandez of Crossmark, Ed Mills of
Raymond James, Shamim Khan of [music]
City, and Amanda Lynam of Goldman Sachs,
the second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance, up next.
>> For the most part, the economy is in a
very strong trajectory.
>> The US still has the most dynamic, most
innovative economy. [music]
>> People continue to underestimate that.
>> We really have reoriented this economy
towards a very strong cap backs.
>> For right now, you have to kind of tip
your hat to the economy and say things
are stable.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> It's a cross [music] start to May, let's
hope it stays that way. Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning,
good morning for our audience worldwide.
The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance [music] starts right now.
Your price action and scores look like
this. Equity futures this morning muted
gains up by about a tenth of 1%. What
[music] a run through the month of April
higher by 10%. The biggest monthly gain
since 2020 on the S&P [music] 500.
You've got to go back 20 years plus for
the Nasdaq. The Nasdaq 100, the biggest
monthly gain on the Nasdaq 100 going
back to 2002. [music]
A 16%
advance on the Nasdaq through April.
That's the scores in the equity market.
This is how things are shaping up in the
commodity market this morning. Brent
crude front end of the futures curve,
we're now talking about July. Just bear
that in mind. 111 [music] for WTI, we're
still talking about the month of June at
105 this morning. Brent crude up by
about 7/10 [music] of 1% and with crude
still being elevated, this is the move
in the bond market. Yields are as well.
Near the highs of the year, close to 440
at 438 on tens.
>> You can't underestimate the strength in
earnings and the strength in corporate
America given the fact that we just saw
the best monthly rally since 2020 as you
mentioned, even with yields going
higher, even with oil prices going
significantly higher. It just shows a
resilience that really underpins the
lack of attention [music] that people
have paid to it. RJ Rajadaksha of
Barclays really summed it up well. Is
this the market just shrugging things
off? Is it the earnings being so great?
Or is it also that the oil ramifications
really haven't hit yet? That ultimately
the first 3 weeks were not necessarily
felt in the physical world in the same
kind of way because of the floating oil
and because of the supply glut that
people hadn't taken into consideration.
[music] How much does that change in
every consecutive week going forward?
>> were still arriving.
>> [music]
>> The inventories were large. There was a
cushion there. So in RJ's mind it's not
that the situation in the Middle East
didn't matter. It just didn't matter
yet. And first and foremost, what did
matter to him was the earnings profile
in the United States. And earnings have
been fantastic [music]
in certain places. Now he thinks that
maybe it will start to matter. So this
is an interesting call coming from the
team of Barclays because they've been
bullish off the low of late March,
upgrading the price target on the S&P
500. And now they turn a little bit more
neutral because the longer this blockade
goes on in their minds, they believe it
starts to bite.
>> A number of analysts say that they're
going to start to worry a little bit
more when the oil majors start
performing more
more successfully in markets. They
haven't been really doing anything.
You've pointed this out many times. And
yet Chevron and Exxon reporting earnings
today highlighted [music]
how we were just hearing the price
trumps volume. And when you look at the
likes of Exxon with [music] a $1.7
billion increase to their budget as a
result of higher oil prices despite the
hits to the $400 hit, you see how much
some of the losses are offset. If they
do better, is that problematic for the
rest [music] of the index?
>> Mike Wirth over at Chevron is the guy I
always always listen to. The global
energy system is under extreme stress,
his words this morning. Demand must come
down if supply is not reestablished. And
right now supply is not being
reestablished. So what does it leave the
central banks? So, this week we heard
from the Fed, [music] the BOE, and the
ECB. The Federal Reserve very close to
dropping its easing bias. It's getting
closer. The Bank of England open to
hiking interest rates sometime soon,
just not quite there yet. The ECB, out
of the three, arguably closest. It feels
like there's a real real consideration
listening to the guard through that news
conference yesterday [music] that June
is very much on the table.
>> Yeah, it just seems like there needs to
be a reason not to for them to
ultimately make that move. June right
now very much priced in for the ECB
despite the fact that analysts here say
it'll be a policy error considering the
fact that growth is slowing.
Nonetheless, highest [music] yields in
the Eurozone since 2011, the UK since
2008, Japan since 1997. You put this all
together, you know, at what point does
that crimp some of the dynamism that
we're seeing in the earnings and
corporate story?
>> Futures right now positive by 10th of 1%
on the S&P 500. [music] Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Victoria
Fernandez of Crossmark Global with
equities hitting fresh all-time highs.
Ed Mills of Raymond James on the
standoff in the Strait of Hormuz, and
Amanda Lynam of Goldman Sachs as
hyperscalers unleash record debt. We
begin this hour with stocks holding
steady, closing out a week of strong
tech earnings. Victoria Fernandez of
Crossmark Global writing, "Our theme for
the year is high-risk bull market, and
earnings seem to be telling us that the
bull component of that statement is
holding true." Victoria joins us now for
more. Victoria, welcome to the program.
Decent earnings in many cases. Does that
insulate the stock market from
additional pressure from elsewhere?
>> I think it does at least for the time
being, but you're still seeing a market
that's that's a little jittery. I mean,
look at Sandisk, right? Great earnings,
not the cover off the ball, and the
stock is down this morning. So, the
market isn't necessarily going in and
rewarding everyone um because they have
good earnings, but it's the fact that
the earnings are good, that people are
meeting expectations, and even exceeding
them in some cases, that continues to
give a little bit of momentum to this
market and I think your conversation is
spot on when you're talking about some
of the elements that just haven't hit
the market yet. When you look at the
buffer of the tax situation, higher gas
prices have taken out about 12 to 15% of
that tax buffer right now. So the
longevity of how long this straight of
four moves is closed could eat away at
that pretty quickly and then I think you
start to see sentiment turn, but for now
earnings and capex are really driving
this market.
>> Average gasoline prices in this country
now pushing 440 a gallon. Victoria, do
you believe that's a growth story or an
inflation story?
>> Yeah, I think for now we see it as an
inflation story and consumers are only
going to be able to pay higher prices
for so long and again they have a little
bit of a buffer right now that will get
them further along. We saw spending up
0.9% and but incomes were only up 0.3.
So how long are they willing to do that?
And when you look at the companies, the
oil and gas companies saying they need
demand to come down, it wouldn't take
long for demand to come down if we
continue to see those prices move higher
and we don't see incomes move at the
same pace. And obviously if we've get
central banks starting to raise rates
like you were talking about, I think the
ECB whisper talk is maybe two hikes
through the rest of this year, then you
definitely get that demand coming down
and that will bring inflation down with
it. But for now, I think you're going to
have stickier inflation.
>> Jon started the show saying that we're
about 7 hours into May and it seems
pretty calm and so hopefully it'll stay
that way and I almost laughed. I did
laugh because ultimately it's been such
a tumultuous ride and one thing that
people keep saying is you don't get a
full read on anything. There's no way to
get an edge on the news flow. What is
the canary in the coal mine for a shift
in the tone where earnings can be
independent of some of these macro
trends?
>> Yeah, so earnings in itself, like I
said, are not really feeding through in
terms of just because a company does
well, the stock is going to do well. We
have examples of that. What I think is
really feeding through is the capex
component. So, capex has been huge. When
you look at the GDP number, you're
seeing analysts say about 1 and 1/2% of
the 2% growth for GDP came from capex.
It came from that industrial complex,
the non-residential investment
component. That's where we're seeing a
lot of things grow. And I think that's
going to be what drives us forward. So,
we're going to be watching those
elements very closely. It's one of the
reasons I think that you're seeing
things like agriculture breakout. You're
seeing industrial metals outperform
precious metals because the
discretionary part of the market really
is not doing that great. There's certain
elements of it, but discretionary itself
is back to kind of where we saw in the
beginning of the year where it's not
doing wonderfully. So, I don't think we
can make a blanket statement about the
market. I think we have to look at very
specific components what's driving the
momentum right now, and those are the
areas that you want to look at investing
in.
>> If the Chevron's and Exxon's start
outperforming again, is that a warning
sign for the rest of the non-tech
market?
>> It's difficult to say, and obviously
sitting here in Houston, I'd love to see
these companies do well. I like to see
their cash flows increase, but you also
don't see these companies going out and
doing drilling and doing new projects.
They're really just kind of sitting on
hold because as you've heard the CEO say
some this morning, um even say this can
change pretty quickly. So, they're not
going to make big decisions and do
things that will affect their balance
sheets without knowing how long some of
these elements are going to be in place.
So, I don't think it's necessarily a
growth story here. I think we're looking
at a market that is weighing a lot on
earnings and capex. They're concerned
about what's going on in energy, but
they're in a wait-and-see mode, not
ready to make decisions based on that
yet.
>> Let's stay with CapEx and let's pick out
two names, two very different stories
this week, Meta and Alphabet. Meta down
yesterday by close to 9%, Alphabet up
10%. Both of them are spending a lot of
money. What's the difference between the
two right now and are we reaching the
limits of this CapEx boom?
>> Yeah, you know, I'm not sure we are
reaching the limits, unfortunately. It
makes me very nervous when I see these
numbers continue to go higher, but I
think the reason we had a difference
between those two companies, there's
concern around Meta's revenue and the
monetization of the CapEx that they're
putting to work. Whereas, when you look
at Alphabet, you're already seeing some
of that come to fruition. Plus, Alphabet
has their cloud business up 60%. I mean,
I think that was one of the strongest
components that you saw for Alphabet.
Plus, you saw
paid subscribers go up, you saw their
backlog double. So, there were a lot of
elements there at Alphabet that continue
to have it as one of the leaders. It's
the area where we're overweight in the
Mag 7 along with Apple, um where we're
underweight when it comes to Meta. And I
think it comes down to that monetization
and do they have the revenue in order to
do the CapEx they're talking about. We
saw Meta come to market with what, a $25
billion bond deal this week? So, that
makes people nervous.
>> Yeah, and a big order book, too, of
about 96 billion. We'll talk about that
order book a little bit later this hour.
Victoria Fernandez there of Crossmark
Global. Victoria, thank you. The
performance, the spread of the
performance through equity across some
of these names. Apple up 7%, Meta up 7,
Microsoft up 10, Amazon up 27, Alphabet
up 34% last month.
>> Yeah, you see who's gaining share and
who's actually sitting expectations when
it comes to growth rates. Google had
been left for dead and people said Open
AI would eat its lunch. All of a sudden,
not so fast. We've got Gemini taking
over and frankly, they're gaining to on
the cloud computing side as well as
well. Amazon, meanwhile, turning to
become a chip producer. People are
getting very excited. Meta, a question
mark. What are they spending on? Do they
have a clear vision? They're cutting
staff. They're seeing demand go down for
their advertising. People feel a little
more sketchy. Still, $96 billion order
book for a $25 billion deal. I'm not
exactly crying for them.
>> $125,
which was what the order book was last
time for the $30 billion offering.
>> Right. So, it's actually waning demand,
and so maybe this is a warning sign
that, you know,
>> Is fatigue building?
>> Yeah, that's correct.
>> We'll ask Amanda Lineham later this
hour. She's joining us from home, but
she'll have her own views on that
situation in the credit market. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yohaira has more. Hey, Yohaira.
>> Hi, John.
President Trump [music] says he's
sticking with a naval blockade of
Iranian ports. His comments coming
[music] after oil hit a wartime high.
Iran's new supreme leader also casting
doubt on the likelihood of a deal,
vowing not to give up the country's
nuclear or missile technologies. [music]
Nvidia and Microsoft are signing deals
with the US Department of Defense to
expand the use of AI on [music]
classified military networks. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, the
Pentagon is also looking to strike a
similar agreement with Amazon [music]
Web Services.
And Jane Street's pay pool more than
doubling to [music] $9.4 billion in
2025. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that the market maker brought
in about $40 billion in trading revenue
last year, putting it ahead of Wall
Street banks and many [music] of its
peers. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
>> Have we lost Amanda Lineham Jane Street?
>> How do I get a job at Jane Street?
>> application. You're ready to go.
>> Please please [music] write my
application.
>> I can't afford you, Breanna.
>> All right. Oh, yeah. I Oh, oh, thank
you. That's so sweet. That's your That's
your pitch.
>> Up [music] next on the program,
keeping the pressure on Iran.
>> Their
economy is crashing. The blockade is
incredible. The power of the blockade is
incredible. They're not getting any
money from oil.
And
hopefully it can be worked out very
soon.
>> Up next we'll catch up with Ed Morse and
Raymond James live from New York City
this morning. Good [music] morning.
Stocks a bit snoozy this morning firmer
by a tenth of 1% on the S&P and the
Nasdaq down by 0.2. Breaking down the
month of April energy stocks trading
lower on the month discretionary [music]
on the S&P
up by double digits. Decent gain there
despite this this move in crude. Brent
WTI Brent crude still triple digits here
across the board 111 on Brent crude and
up by 0.8% [music] so far this morning
and the longer dated prices say the
December contract they've [music] been
making new highs throughout this week.
>> There's two theories on one hand that
the actual pain hasn't really hit. The
second one is that the US economy is
resilient enough and strong [music]
enough and the consumer wants to spend
enough that this just isn't a problem.
And which is it? And ultimately the
answer to that will decide the fate of
some [music] of these consumer
discretionaries and frankly the optimism
in US economic strength despite the
increase in oil prices.
>> And more verbal intervention from the
Japanese. This time not the FX market
but the commodity market and if you're
just joining us and you missed this this
is the quote from the Vice Finance
Minister for international affairs.
Generally [music] speaking we are always
ready to act regarding crude oil futures
transactions.
>> That feels like somebody standing in
front of an oil tanker and trying to
push it back. [music] I mean at what
point do you not want to just burn money
given the fact that you can't really
fight the groundswell of concern about
higher oil [music] prices and at some
point you are going to get wiped out. So
I understand that Japan is a big
economy. I just wonder for all the
people who say this is a manipulated
market it could be and people were
thinking about that. It's a pretty big
market to be manipulated for that long
and it's pretty expensive.
>> the threat the willingness of Japanese
authorities [music] to manipulate
markets.
>> Do you? Do you know?
>> point that they are no longer markets
anymore.
>> Are you buying any ETF in Japan?
>> cases we saw that in the JGB market over
the last decade. Which is why people
take threats like this seriously because
they've shown a willingness and ability
[music] to follow through on some of
these things.
>> Arguably JGBs are a bit more of a closed
market than say oil.
>> I would agree with that.
>> So potentially that might be a little
bit more problematic. Nevertheless, I'm
glad that you appreciate the oil.
>> of people. I know we've got to move in
move on.
There are some people that think [music]
some funky stuff has been happening in
the futures market.
>> Every single person
>> Over the last two months.
>> Every single person who's come on when
I've asked them [music] they say, "Well,
yeah, look at the trades." I mean there
definitely has been. At the same time it
hasn't been enough to push prices lower
the longer this grinds on. At a certain
point it does become a freight trade
>> [music]
>> and that maybe is what we're seeing in
the December contract.
>> 111 on Brent this morning in the July
contract. Under Savannah [music] this
morning keeping the pressure on Iran.
>> Their economy is crashing. The blockade
is incredible. The power of the blockade
is incredible. They're not getting any
money from oil.
And
hopefully it can be worked out very
soon. The gas will go down as soon as
the war is over it'll drop like a rock.
Despite the fact that we are in what
some people would call a war,
we just hit a new high today on the
stock market.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
President Trump vowing to maintain the
blockade on Iranian ports. Tehran
insisting it must be lifted before new
talks can occur. Bloomberg's Tanvir Khan
has more. Mona Tyler.
>> Hey John, good morning. Well, President
Trump maintains that it's fractured
leadership in Iran that is making the
negotiations so difficult and he says
that the US still wants to pursue the
diplomatic options. But at this point
and as you mentioned the sticking point
seems to be that Iranian officials have
been pretty consistent that they don't
want to resume talks until the US lifts
its naval blockade. And in the latest
sign that that's not happening, a senior
administration official tells us that
the US Department of Justice has
initiated the forfeiture process for two
Iranian linked oil tankers that were
seized by US naval forces just the other
week. Now, it's unclear what this will
entail, but it's something to watch
because it could signal intent to seize
the oil cargoes on board in what would
be considered an escalation because at
this point Axios is reporting that
President Trump has been briefed at it
on an array of potential options
including maybe even a short wave of
strikes to help try to break the
deadlock that we're currently in because
Iran is still maintaining its hardline
position. In fact, we got a statement
from Iran's president overnight calling
the US blockade quote intolerable. But
John, when asked yesterday about whether
or not President Trump is getting what
the reporter called quote antsy about
ending the ceasefire if we could see a
resumption when it comes to the
fighting, the president maintained that
no one really knows where these talks
stand except for himself and a couple of
other advisers.
>> Tala Kanani with the latest in the
nation's capital down in Washington DC.
Tala, thank you. Ed Mills of Raymond
James writes in this, "Any diplomatic
path forward will likely be rocky and
have to take the form of a near-term
framework that allows both sides to
claim victory." Ed joins us now for
more. Ed, welcome to the program. At
times this has been messy. That's
inevitable. We've asked the question
whether this is strategic ambiguity or
just the lack of a strategy. Do you
think we have a decent idea of what the
strategy is now?
>> Well, John, I think the biggest concern
that I have is right now both sides feel
the other one wants to get this over
quicker and both the United States and
Iran think that they have the upper
hand. And so unless someone feels this
pressure, um the Straits of Hormuz are
not reopening. In the you know, kind of
back and forth here is it the oil price?
Is it the price at the gas pump here in
the United States? Is it political
pressure on Trump? Or is it the fact
that the Iranian economy needs to move
things through the Straits? Uh they have
more than 150 million barrels of oil on
the water. They have oil wells that are
about to get shut in. Uh who moves first
is really the question that I'm getting
the most here at Raymond James.
>> And how would targeted strikes
accelerate the process by the US?
>> I think uh you know, the hope there,
Lisa, is that it is going to just force
it that there is going to be that threat
that something has to move. Um and I
think from a market perspective, I think
the debate here is are targeted strikes
a signal that the kinetic activity is
about to really ramp up, or is that the
push that finally reopens and gets us
back to the negotiating table? My bet is
the immediate market reaction would be
the kind of fact that they think that
this could reopen things and this could
be the catalyst to those talks
restarting. Uh so, the hope I have is
that even with additional kinetic
activity, the market holds in there. Uh
the kind of risk there is that it
actually kind of goes further south
before we get any sort of solution.
>> And how does the deadline of 60 days
calculate in this whole equation, given
the fact that sensibly the
administration would need to seek
congressional approval to continue the
conflict beyond that?
>> Yeah, so there's two things there under
the War Powers Act of 1973, there is the
60-day deadline. Um what we heard from
Secretary Heggseth yesterday is that
they Trump administration doesn't think
that they are hitting that 60-day
deadline because of the ceasefire. And
under this, there's also a 30-day
ability to kind of withdraw troops.
However, we have seen presidents in the
past violate this deadline. After 60
days, you are supposed to get the
congressional authorization, but you go
back to the Obama administration. You
actually had the House of
Representatives vote to end activity um
in Libya because they were well beyond
that 60 and 90-day period. The Senate
never took that up. They tried to go to
the courts. The court said, "You know
what? It's Congress's job." So, right
now, it is a political issue for the
Trump administration, and unless you
have a veto proof majority in the House
and the Senate, this law does not get
enforced.
>> In 2 weeks time, there's a meeting with
the Chinese leader. And initially, when
that date was set, when the original
date was pushed out to the middle of
May, people looked at the calendar and
said, "It will be over by then."
Is that day important anymore?
>> It's very important because you have the
number one economy sitting down with the
number two economy. Um
we don't have a huge expectation that
there's going to be big deals that come
out of the Trump and Xi meeting. Uh
there is a view that that could be some
pressure, but there is growing questions
that I'm getting here at Raymond James
is does this get pushed off again? Uh we
have not seen the staff level uh
negotiations. Uh Bessen and Greer have
not met with their counterparts. And
unless you have that fleshed out
activity before the meeting, you're not
going to get real deals into this
meeting. Uh the other big question I've
gotten here at Raymond James is Xi, who
said that this war is upsetting the
world order, come in and try to be a bit
more aggressive with President Trump.
But the risk there is that President
Trump never stays on the defensive. He
goes on the offensive. And if we have an
escalation in the trade war with China,
if we are questioning what's happening
with tech restrictions on
semiconductors, if we're questioning
what's happening on critical minerals,
those are not positive headlines. I
don't think we get there, but that risk
is absolutely present over this next 2
weeks.
>> Editor, any signs of that so far? I've
been struck by some of the commentary on
corporate calls. I'm thinking of Apple
in particular in Tim Cook talking about
how things are actually getting better
in China. And they actually reported a
better than expected sales in China. Do
you get any sense that the relationship
is tension
becoming more tense, or do you think
that we're entering a period of both
sides wanting calm?
>> Yeah, so after the October meeting
between Trump and Xi, he gave an order,
President Trump gave an order to the
administration, stand down. Do not do
anything that pokes China, which has op-
uh given this opportunity to
de-escalate. Uh there's been
conversations with companies like Apple,
can they work with a couple of Chinese
companies uh to develop deals on memory
because those have been very expensive
products. Uh those are openings, you
have you have Tim Cook has had a great
relationship with President Trump uh
since the beginning of this uh second
term. Um but if you see this kind of
shift and and if she wants to make this
change because they hold a number of
things that we need to run our economy,
um he could get a little bit more
aggressive. Now, the United States holds
plenty of things that China needs to uh
run their economy. It's just more of
that personality-driven
decision-making as we go into this uh
discussion here kind of 2 weeks from now
that can dictate that. And I guess the
one warning I'd have is that we've seen
in the past China will escalate right
before the meeting to be able to
de-escalate during the meeting. Trump's
able to come out of the meeting and say,
"I won these concessions that China had
threatened." That's what we did in
October. Will we do it again here in
May?
>> Looking forward to that down so it
happens later on. And thank you, sir. Ed
Morse there at Raymond James,
wonderfully framed for meeting that
takes place in a few weeks' time.
Remember it was going to be a diplomatic
embarrassment, language like that,
right? Which is why it was delayed
originally.
>> Yeah, and if it [music] gets delayed
again, how terrible. And now it's sort
of like, yeah, what's the point? Let's
just move it all around.
>> Coming up on the program, Shweta [music]
Singh of Citi as the Iran war reshapes
global trade, plus Danny's got your
morning movers, Moderna flying
>> [music]
>> in the premarket higher by 7%.
>> and what a run against for the month of
April. Let's go through the scores once
again because they're absolutely
phenomenal before we move on too
quickly. Up 10% in April on the S&P,
biggest monthly gain since November
2020. On the Nasdaq up 16, biggest
monthly gain since October [music] 2002.
And for the semi index, the Philadelphia
semiconductor index up by 38% [music]
in April and the biggest monthly gain
we've seen going back to 2
thousand, [music] the year 2000.
>> Given the fact that we've seen gains
like that, it is shocking to know that
bonds didn't cooperate, oil didn't
cooperate, the downside surprise in
economic growth didn't cooperate. A lot
of things didn't cooperate to make this
happen. One thing [music] cooperated and
it was big tech earnings and broader
earnings in general. And at what point
does that get crimped by some of these
other aspects? That's the debate heading
into May. You're hoping it'll be a
really non-momentous [music] May, quiet,
we'll all relax.
>> quiet, just until the weekend. I don't
mind if the rest of the month is crazy.
I welcome that.
I've got to buy
>> Really? You're going to get hate mail
cuz people are like, you know, listen, I
just want Sunday nights to be nice.
>> any journalist in our world that says
they're not long volatility
is a liar. Okay?
>> [music]
>> That's what they want.
>> You know
>> It makes it interesting. They don't want
it boring all the time.
They want drama, they want you know,
[music] just excitement.
Whether you find scary things exciting
or not is, you know,
>> Your own bag, right?
Anyway, I think it's going to be a
really interesting month. I'm excited
for this month.
>> I agree with you. Okay. Let's turn to
crude.
Brent and WTI shaping up as follows this
morning. On Brent, just bear in mind the
front month of the futures contract is
now the month of July. So, we're not
really comparing [music] apples to
apples here. WTI still June. WTI is at
105, Brent crude is at 110. Still
elevated really across the board and
across the curve and I think that's how
the story's changed. Never mind the
front month. We talked lots about how
things would really kick in at the back
end [music] of the year, crude prices
would drop, deep backwardation, all that
stuff.
Really the opposite has [music] started
to happen. We're talking about the long
end of the futures curve, the longer end
making new highs throughout this week
[music] and that gets your attention.
>> contract for Brent is almost $90. The
December contract for WTI is about $80,
a little bit north of that. We're
looking at this sort of steady creeping
higher. So even if the Bank of Japan or
the Japanese authorities want to come in
and try to manipulate the long-dated
curve of oil, [music] good luck because
a lot of people are taking a look at
some of the physical shortages and
saying it's just a matter of when. And
ultimately it is slow-moving a train
wreck that a lot of people have their
eye on.
>> This is going to be keeping bond yields
elevated throughout this morning, 2s 10s
30s. [music]
30-year yields up by single basis point,
10s up by one as well, 438 [music] on
10s. So 440 yesterday is like the high
of the year. Right now, we're right
there on 10s. And to your point, you
said it earlier, over in Japan, yields
closest to the close to the highest
yields we've seen since the 90s, the UK
2008, Germany 2011. Pretty elevated
stuff in the bond market.
>> inflationary pressures, you have
questions about fiscal spend to offset
the consumer pain as a result of higher
oil prices, and you have a real concern
about investing in the physical world
and where that money's going to come
from. Those three
>> [music]
>> all those three things come together, a
lot of people are saying, as Ajay
Rajadhyaksha said, I wouldn't touch it
with a 10-foot pole.
>> He's not alone.
>> I know.
>> Which is why yields have been drifting
higher. 10s right now at 438. It's
funny, isn't it? People were lining up
at the end of the May
>> [music]
>> end of the month of May saying that we'd
created value in the bond market and
wanted to buy yield. This was a great
opportunity to lock in some income. I
don't hear that quite as much as we did
a month ago.
>> The situation with the state of remote
has been [music] a game changer. We've
heard that time and time again from
people. Neil Dutta is the perfect litmus
test. He was so gung-ho about how weak
the labor market actually was and the
need to cut rates. Now we're talking
about him saying that this is a Fed that
should remain [music] on hold. So go
figure.
>> Neil Dutta's changed, Governor Waller's
changed. Went through those names this
morning. There's been a shift. There's
been a shift. 10s this morning, 438 up a
single basis point. On our radar this
morning, Chevron and Exxon rising in the
pre-market after reporting earnings that
beat estimates. Chevron saying higher
oil prices helped offset production
outages. We'll catch up with the Chevron
CFO later on this afternoon at 3:30
Eastern time. Anne Marie, we'll finally
get into the office a little bit later.
Just didn't make it this morning.
>> Yeah, well, I won't make it Monday, so.
>> You're going to be here Monday?
>> No, I'm going to lie.
>> going to have a long weekend?
>> to have a long lie in.
>> Good for you.
>> Okay, let's move on.
>> You've earned it, Anne Marie.
>> Oh, that's so sweet.
>> Let's turn to OpenAI. The CFO, Sarah
Friar, pushing back on concerns about
missing internal targets. Friar saying
the company is meeting objectives and
seeing a quote vertical wall of demand
for its products. And finally, Meta
planning to shrink its teams and develop
new apps as AI shifts the company's
workflows. The Wall Street Journal
reporting the CEO, Mark Zuckerberg,
saying the move won't necessarily mean
more layoffs. Meta falling 8% on
Thursday after raising its CapEx for the
year. And the story this morning is not
really improving too much.
>> No, because on one hand, there's a
question of what exactly its strategy
is, whether it potentially could have
layoffs. It's saying anything remains on
the table, but also saying
that recently the trajectory of for our
business is still very strong, but what
you have seen is a real shift downward
in terms of the flow in advertising as a
result. And he blamed what's going on in
the Middle East. So, people are looking
at this and maybe getting a little bit
skeptical.
>> Well, let's talk about what's happening
in the Middle East right now. The
stalemate in the Strait of Hormuz
reshaping global supply chains. Shamin
Khan, a colleague, the city head of
services writing for corporates, "The
challenge is cumulative. Predictability
has declined and more capital is
required up front simply to move goods
reliably." Shamin joins us now for more.
Shamin, good morning.
>> Thank you so much. Thank you for having
me.
>> Thank you for being here. Just in time
used to be the way business was done.
We've been doing that for decades.
Globalization really helped encourage
all of that. Things have changed,
haven't they?
>> Things have changed materially. And I
would say, if you just step back and
think about not just what's happening in
the Strait of Hormuz, but also what's
been happening since the start of the
year last year with tariffs coming
through having an impact on company
supply chains and how they go out and
sell products across the globe.
Secondly, as you think about what's
happened to rates, rates have generally
stayed elevated. We were expecting to
see more cuts in the
particularly in the US come through. We
haven't seen that yet and generally
inflation. So as you think about this
triple whammy of effects, we're seeing
companies really basically stepping back
and saying, "How do I think about my
supply chain? How do I think about my
working capital cycle, my cash flow and
make sure I'm running an optimal
business cycle?" And therefore, at least
from where we're sitting, we're seeing a
lot of the companies move from
just-in-time
to thinking about production resiliency.
When you go there and you talk about
production resiliency, that by
definition means you're going to run a
far more expensive and a far more
diversified supply chain and a far more
resilient supply chain. So what that
means is higher expenses and companies
have to therefore think about what that
incremental cost, how that factors in
and by definition has an effect as they
sell their products or services down the
>> some time on that. When you shift from
one to the other, how do financing needs
change?
>> Yeah. I think very clearly, right? So if
you think about first and foremost, you
think about your suppliers and and the
goods that you put into your production
process. First and foremost, are you
going to use the same suppliers? Do you
have you have to onboard new suppliers?
Think about new production facilities.
You have to go out there
and basically assess the strength and
resiliency of the new supply chain that
you're building out. So that takes time,
that takes assessment and that obviously
need needs capex on both sides of the
house, both on the supply side and on
the company side. And then separately,
as you think about how that supply chain
then moves through your production
processes, you have to potentially
retool production, think about moving
your production and moving potentially
near-shoring it to where your actual
client demand lies. So, all of that
disruption is causing some of these
significant moves that we're seeing. And
by definition, higher oil prices, that
is another higher cost of input. So,
we're seeing a lot of major change
happen in a very, very short period of
time.
>> Before 2020, people said it took a long
time to change supply chains. And that
was one reason why there was a
stickiness to some of the suppliers. How
much has that process sped up?
>> Uh I'd say significantly. Um I think
companies have become far more resilient
and far more agile in how they think.
Clearly, technology's helped. Um but I
would also say companies have been on
this journey for quite some time now.
And that's why what we're seeing, if you
look at global trade flows, global trade
flows are up about 2 and 1/2 trillion
dollars on a year-over-year basis.
Trade flows are holding up really well.
But I would say within that, I think
there are pockets. You think about the
AI boom and what's happening in the
world of AI and all of the data centers
and the supply chains building up to
actually cater to that need. Couple that
with also you know, I could give you a
few more sectors. The automotive sector,
the tech sector, the consumer sector,
the health care sector all have seen
varying disruptions. And I would say a
real focus on building out a supply
chain which is far more resilient to
helping execute the production agenda
that those companies have.
>> There are frictions traditionally in the
banking industry. It takes time to
transfer money. It takes time to change
some of these flows. It takes time to
identify all of the vendors involved.
How has that changed in in pretty
dramatic fashion over the past couple of
years to meet the changing demands?
>> Well, it's it's a journey that I would
say the entire banking industry is on,
but Citi in particular, the business
that I run in managed services, you
know, we've been on a mission to
actually think about 24/7 as our
mission. So, as you think about our
payments platform, our liquidity
platform, and trade platform,
uh the one thing we've the one principle
we've lived by is saying, "How do we
make this payment execute much faster?
How do we make liquidity and financing
available to support that payment,
whether it's intraday lines or working
capital financing lines, we've seen a
significant take-up across the board.
You think about our instant payments
book of work, our cross-border volumes,
we're seeing double-digit growth in
cross-border volumes. We're seeing a
significant double-digit growth in
instant payments around the world. Those
payments around arrive within seconds.
So, we built out a new platform called
Citi Payments Express. We built out a
new trade platform called Nirvana,
which allows suppliers to be on-boarded
much, much faster. It's in the name.
It's a great name.
>> [laughter]
>> I wouldn't think it would be a payment
system, but carry on.
>> But, but what it does is it allows
suppliers, as companies change, it
allows us to on-board suppliers.
Previously, it would take a couple of
months to on-board a supplier. Now, we
can do it in less than a week.
>> Can I ask you this question? Something
to give some thought to. If I was going
to start a new company today,
>> Yeah.
>> the answer to where I'm going to start
it, is it changed? The answer from 10
years ago versus now, is the answer
different?
>> Uh I would say yes, because I would say,
if you step back and think about that,
you would say the world's gone far more
digital. You can be sitting in Kansas,
and you could be sitting a global
running a global operation, because if
you think about marketplaces and how
they operate, you could actually set up
a company and have clients across the
globe. You could have a supply chain
across the globe. You could run it
pretty much from anywhere in the world.
And I I think technology today is very
different to the technology from 5 or 10
years ago, with instant payment
platforms having been built out, with us
having invested in trade finance as
well. But most importantly, I would say
the next 5 to 10 years look even looks
even more
exciting, because with blockchain coming
online,
along with AI, as you think about smart
contracts and the ability to inject that
into an e-commerce, either an e-commerce
platform or into your supply chain, that
is going to be a key driver for what how
we see commerce and activity picking up
across the globe.
>> Real quick here. Are you seeing supply
chains move away from the Middle East
yet? Have you seen any material shift
directly tied to the Middle East region?
>> I would say it's too short a time period
for us to say that, you know, we're
seeing
any movement away from the Middle East.
I would still say Middle East is
obviously one of the largest as a
region, one of the largest producers of
oil, of course, of course, across the
globe.
I would also say given our presence in
the Middle East and what we see and hear
from clients, all of those clients are
driving their agendas around the globe
as we speak. We're actually helping them
immunize their business from some of
these what I would call short-term
shocks.
But I actually expect to see significant
growth in the Middle East. We continue
to invest in that region. We continue to
see potential beyond what we're seeing
in the very short term.
>> Shamik, appreciate your time.
>> Thank you, sir.
>> Thanks for breaking it down. Really
interesting stuff.
>> Shamik Khaliq there of Citi on the
supply chain shift we've seen, not just
over the last few months, but the last
decade or so. And these supply chains
have faced shock after shock after shock
ever since 2016.
>> Yeah, just-in-time going to just-in-case
and the extra cost that that builds into
the system as well. Has technology
offset that? I think increasingly. I
mean, I think about what some people at
my house are doing with Claude. I mean,
you just think about what you could do
in terms of planning your supply chain.
It would be a very different story.
>> all the Mac minis are?
>> Yeah, it's a Brammo.
>> I mean, honestly, I don't even know what
goes on in there.
>> Don't want to know either.
>> [laughter]
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahaira has more. Hey,
Yahaira.
>> Hi, John. The Pentagon is expanding its
use of AI on classified networks,
signing new deals with Nvidia,
Microsoft, Amazon Web Services, and
Reflection AI. The effort comes as the
Pentagon races for AI alternatives
>> [music]
>> to Anthropic's Claude amid ongoing
disagreements with the company.
>> Elon Musk's total compensation for 2025
topping $150 [music] billion, according
to a regulatory filing. However, that
pay is tied to stock and operational
milestones that have
>> [music]
>> not been met yet, meaning his realized
compensation for the year was actually
zero.
>> And Wall Street executives and New York
City's ultra-wealthy [music]
are uniting against Mayor Zohran Mamdani
after he criticized a home owned by
Citadel's Ken Griffin. [music] Business
leaders like Dan Loeb, Lloyd Blankfein,
and Mike Novogratz criticizing the tone
of the mayor's statement as he tries
[music] to add a tax on second homes in
the city. That's your Bloomberg Brief,
John.
>> Yohana, thank you. Thank you very much.
I don't like the framing. I don't want
this to become a story of Mamdani the
socialist versus the ultra-wealthy and a
battle [music] between the two.
This should be about business leaders,
wealth creators, employers [music] in
this city, and what they think we need
to do to make sure that New York City
stays [music] an attractive destination
for all of those things. If we reduce
this in the media to a battle about
wealth and the haves and the the people
who don't have, you're going to end up
with a very different fight.
Politically, [music]
this needs to be about what's good for
the economy so that people actually want
to come here, live here, have a job
here, be employed here, and pay taxes
here. Because right now, that's not the
debate that I'm hearing play out.
>> When you look at the amount of revenue
that we brought up from the pied-a-terre
tax, it is negligible relative to the
potential wealth you could lose. And
this is what a lot of people are
pointing to, and it should be the
economic discussion of how you attract
capital. Because ultimately,
>> [music]
>> this is a capitalist city, and it's run
in you know, that's that's sort of the
point, you know.
>> what the media wants, right?
>> What's What is the media want?
>> versus the socialists, you know, they
want that fight on the front page. The
people [music] who cover this story,
look at how it's written.
>> Yeah, I know it's true. You're right.
You're not wrong.
You're not wrong. It's a It makes a good
story, but the reality is that dollars
and cents make a city go.
>> Precisely. Up next on the program,
funding AI ambitions.
>> If they were to issue 30 billion, you'd
hardly notice it. That's how [music] big
they are. That's how little leverage
they've carried. These guys have the
demand, they'll show you the demand, and
I think these guys [music] are right to
borrow.
>> I'm nice to catch up with Amanda Lynam
of Goldman Sachs live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> Equity futures this morning positive by
1/10 of 1% on the S&P 500. On the
Nasdaq, slightly lowered. We're down by
0.15%.
Meta [music] yesterday hammered down by
almost 9%. Amanda Lynam this morning
funding AI ambitions.
>> If they were to issue 30 billion, you'd
hardly notice it. That's how big they
are. That's how little leverage they've
carried. And in our conversations with a
lot of big borrowers, [music] we want to
know, do they see the demand? These guys
have the demand, they'll show you the
demand, and they can't monetize it
[music] until they put in place the
capacity. So, there is a big bill
[music] to go. Um and I think these guys
are right to borrow and get that bill
going.
>> It's the headlines this morning. Meta
selling 25 billion dollars of investment
grade bonds after raising its capex
guidance to fund its AI buildout. Amanda
Lynam, the chief credit strategist at
Goldman Sachs, writing, "We see scope
for additional issuance, but not nearly
as much as the hyperscaler balance sheet
debt capacity suggests." Amanda Lynam
joins us now for more. Amanda, good
morning.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> And congratulations on the new seat.
>> so much.
>> Which is kind of like the old seat, but
it's good to see you back.
>> Thank you.
>> Welcome back to the studio. Let's talk
about the issue we got yesterday from
Meta. Some people have talked up demand
fatigue for this debt coming from these
particular players. What was your view
of things?
>> Yeah, it's a great point. I wouldn't
characterize it as fatigue for the
issuers. What I think is it's investors
very carefully navigating market
saturation constraints. We've actually
used the US banks as a really good case
study. The US banks are the largest
issuer in the US IG market. None of them
are more than 2.3% of the index and none
of them have more than 175 billion of
index eligible debt. So when you think
about uh what Bob mentioned, he's
absolutely right. Their balance sheets
are so low leveraged that they have
capacity to add a significant amount of
debt. The point we're making is not all
of that will happen in the traditional
US IG market because investors will need
to manage those issuer concentration
constraints. So what does that mean?
We've already seen issuers in issue in
euro, Swiss franc, sterling. Actually,
if you look at the euro AA market, more
than half of them are US companies and
two of the hyperscalers are in the top
five. Um we've seen private
infrastructure, private real estate. And
we actually we wrote last night um a
deep dive on kind of this new structure
that's being used, these JV type deals
that are kind of off index, off balance
sheet. Very different. Um we've
emphasized the importance of
construction risk coverage and claim to
tenant. Um but this is a this is a a
paradigm shift for the for the corporate
debt markets because there's a
significant amount of financing such
that none of these markets in isolation
will be able to handle it on their own.
So it will need participation.
>> It's also happening very quickly.
>> Yes.
>> That's the big change as well. The a
number of years ago these companies
weren't doing any of this. And now a few
years later they're doing tons of it.
You talked about maybe falling short of
capacity. What kind of size are you
expecting an issuance just from these
big names?
>> we've seen 400 billion in total of
AI-related issuance, not just
hyperscalers, but across IG and high
yield. Most of it in IG since mid-2025.
Our equity analysts are expecting four
and a half trillion of spending from the
four large hyperscalers from 2025 to
2030. If you drill that down just to
this year, that puts CapEx spending
around 700 to 725 billion. That was
actually the estimate coming into
earnings. When you think about the
capacity that these companies could
issue, again, we would go back to those
kind of market saturation limits, the
case study of the US banks. There's a
significant amount of debt capacity on
paper that these companies have, but do
they use all of that in the US IG market
in 2026? We don't think so. This reminds
me very much of some of the structural
shifts that we saw earlier in even in
the 2010 period when pharmaceuticals did
a lot of debt-funded M&A. They issued
debt into the market. This is obviously
a much, much larger scale. But I think
what it shows you is that these
companies are using their balance sheet
capacity thoughtfully, strategically,
not all at once, and they'll be tapping
a variety of different markets. We
already have an above-consensus forecast
for US IG issuance of 2.1 trillion. That
would be a new record, and it's pretty
clear based on this development that the
risks are skewed to the upside.
>> Companies might be smarter about how
they issue, and definitely investors are
being smarter about concentration risks.
But what about holistically,
concentration risk tied to AI injected
into the investment-grade bond market?
Does it make it inherently more
concentrated and frankly riskier as a
result?
>> So US banks are still the dominant
sector, anywhere between 20 and 30%
depending on how wide your financials
net is in your in your classification. I
think there's a room there's plenty of
room to go before that happens. I think
really this is a longer-term trend that
we think has momentum. These tweaks
around the margins on CapEx spending
aren't enough to move the needle on how
they will approach the financing at
least through the medium term. And
again, you know, as as was cited
earlier, these companies have such
incredible balance sheet capacity that
they can almost afford to kind of
overspend in some areas. As we get, you
know, four, five years from now, I think
there will be a more nuanced discussion
about where the early investors the
winners, how are we thinking about that?
I would say our Our analysts are already
kind of digging into that. We we stay in
very close touch with them. But I don't
think it's I don't think it's perceiving
I I don't think it's shifting the risk.
I think what it is doing though is it's
changing the makeup of the market such
that actually some of this this debt is
occurring outside of the index and so
it's causing investors to be a little
bit more creative about where they're
looking.
>> Are you seeing any reluctance by
investors to invest in lower grade
debt particularly tied to some of these
issues not necessarily the hyperscalers
but given the fact that private credit
seems to have a trench in it too.
>> Um well I think private credit I think
is a is an interesting use case because
there's a lot of noise around retail
redemptions but if you look at retail
vehicles as a percentage of the of the
market it's actually only 15% and those
institutional vehicles don't have the
drawdown. So I think if anything if
there's a disruption private credit
probably deploys on the back of that
especially from the institutional
community because there's a lot of dry
powder. To answer your question no we're
not we're not seeing people shy away
from risk and in fact within the IG
market we actually prefer the triple B
pocket of the market because if you
think if you take a step back and you
say where is there the scope for the
most balance sheet deterioration it's
actually at the high end of the rating
spectrum. So that's a view that we have
and I and I think a lot of investors
kind of recognize that as well. They're
just positioning they're not taking it
as a spot credit fundamental metric.
They're saying okay what is the go
forward and what is the supply.
>> Is that concentration in tech at the
high end of the rating spectrum are they
the companies you think about?
>> they're mainly double A or triple A
again very similar to what happened in
pharma. I mean at one point when I was
covering pharma some of these companies
were triple A rated right and they did
debt funded M&A and and they slowly
moved down. That's fine they're still
great credit risks. It's just baking
that into your forward expectation is
important.
>> Incentivized by the market to issue more
debt ultimately.
>> I mean right now people can't get enough
and they are being careful about how
they do that. I love what Amanda said
about how that's the reason why they're
going to Europe not because they think
that necessarily can finance better or
that they want euros but ultimately they
need to be respectful of some of these
constraints in the index.
>> Amanda just going to say you're welcome
back?
>> much.
>> And Madeline and back at Goldman Sachs.
It's good to see breaking down the
credit market and the issuance we saw
earlier this week from Meta.
>> Yeah, and people saying that, you know,
they only got $96 billion
>> [music]
>> of offers to buy their $25 billion
offering. It was $125, $30
billion.
Your lord.
>> 96, small violence [music] and all that,
yeah. All right. Up next, Abby Joseph JP
Morgan Private Bank, Dan Ives of
Wedbush, Alejandro Grindel of Ned Davis
Research, and the NASA administrator
>> [music]
>> Jared Isaacman. All of that the third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> If there's a war, nobody told earnings.
>> What's really driving the market higher
has been extremely strong earnings.
>> If you look at the earnings we've
[music] gotten, they've been incredible.
>> The earnings story is overpowering.
>> As far as kind of the main driver here,
it will continue to be AI.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoerdern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this.
Following a 10% gain on the S&P 500 last
month, we look to add to it this month
up 2/10 of 1% on the S&P 500, down 0.1%
on the Nasdaq 100, which [music] is
nothing compared to the 16% advance we
saw through the month of April, the
biggest monthly gain since 2002. [music]
In a bond market, we're shaping up as
follows for fixed income. Two's, 10's,
30's yield higher by single basis point
on the two-year at 3.88, [music] 10's at
4.38. Dragged higher by elevated crude
prices. Brent, WTI, Brent crude 111, WTI
so far this morning.
>> a bit of a hawkish tone over in Europe
in particular. [music] We seem to be
expecting now a June rate hike from the
European Central Bank. A question about
whether the US Federal Reserve will
actually shift [music] more of a neutral
stance when it comes to symmetric risk.
Is the next move going to be a hike or a
cut? There has been a sea change [music]
though, given that we now we're looking
at higher for longer and people are
gaming this out and saying that the
resilience in the US economy will allow
the second order inflationary effects to
remain [music] sticky here.
>> Pricing in this market was super hawkish
and I think we fell just short of that
the ECB and the Bank of England earlier
this week, but still on their own, they
were quite hawkish decisions. Bank of
England [music] is considering rate
hikes. I don't think that they're yet,
but they're considering it. The ECB to
your point is getting super close.
June's very much on [music] the table.
For the Federal Reserve we're talking
about removing the easing bias,
articulating a more symmetrical reaction
function [music] over at the Federal
Reserve. And for BNP Paribas, it's not
the consensus view, but for BNP Paribas,
they believe there is a risk of a rate
hike this year and it depends on two
things. One, you have a continued
closure of the Strait of Hormuz and
energy prices remain elevated and two,
unemployment declines, which puts a lot
of weight on next week's labor market
report.
Does this labor market support higher
prices? That's the question we keep
going back to over the last two [music]
months. Next week the payrolls report,
the estimate 60K. The range is super
wide, the low is zero, the high is 140.
The unemployment rate's key. 4.3% at the
moment. If you start to see that drift
lower because we actually are seeing an
underlying pickup in the US economy, the
conversation around broad-based
inflation pressure is going to change
pretty quickly.
>> Especially when you put it together with
the lowest [music] jobless claims figure
going back to 1969 with an ECI figure
that crept up the employment cost index
from yesterday's GDP report signaling a
little bit of strengthening there. And
what we heard from Nela Richardson of
ADP saying she's actually starting to
see recoveries in the under underlying
labor market. You put all [music] these
things together, that was what allowed
inflation to take hold in 2022. Is that
a bit more of a factor than some people
had expected in 2026?
>> about 8, 9, 10% inflation of course, but
something closer to four or five versus
say two [music] to three,
conversation shifts quickly.
>> The issue that a lot of people have in
this market is they believe that Kevin
Warsh is going to be dovish, period,
full stop. He is not going to hike rates
because ultimately he has an obligation
to at least keep rates [music] here
given some of the not obligation, but he
is clearly has a
desire [music] to do that. So, the
question is how do they control the
yield curve given considering that you
might get a different reaction in the
long end.
>> Going to keep digging.
>> [laughter]
>> Let's get to the weekend.
Kevin out this hour. Abhi Odeh of JP
Morgan Private Bank with stocks entering
May at record highs. Dan Ives of Wedbush
recapping a busy week for big tech and
Alejandra Grindal of Ned Davis Research
saying there's still a chance of a rate
cut this year. We begin this hour on the
Federal Reserve. Bloomberg's Mike McKee
has some headlines for us. Good morning,
Mike.
>> Good morning, gentlemen. As Lisa was
talking about the dissenters and what
they might do down the road, it has
become a tradition for dissenters to put
out statements and we have a couple of
them this morning from three members of
the Open Market Committee who voted
against the Fed's decision because of
what they say is an easing bias they
don't support. Uh what is that easing
bias? Had a lot of questions about that
after the Fed meeting and this is the
phrase they don't like. In considering
the extent and timing of additional
adjustments to the target range for the
federal funds rate. That, according to
Neil Kashkari, is
the wrong thing to say at this point. He
sees two scenarios ahead, neither one
particularly great for the Fed. One is a
fairly quick reopening of the straight,
which means rates will be on hold for an
extended period, or an extended closure,
which would mean rate hikes and
potentially a series of them. In his
statement out this morning, fairly long
one, he says, "Given the uncertainty
about the path of the conflict and and
effects on inflation, employment, and
economic growth. I believe the FOMC
should offer a policy outlook that
signals the next rate change could be
either a cut or a hike. This could
tighten financial conditions somewhat
today, pushing back against a high
inflation scenario that could require an
even stronger monetary policy response
in the future. We are also getting a
comment from Beth Hammack who voted
against the Fed decision as well. The
Cleveland Fed president saying,
"This forward guidance was put into the
statement to signal a pause rather than
an end to the easing cycle. I see this
clear easing bias is no longer
appropriate given the outlook. Inflation
pressures continue to be broad-based and
rising oil prices present an additional
source of inflationary pressure.
Uncertainty around the economic outlook
is elevated with upside risks to
inflation and downside risks to growth
and employment." Lorie Logan of Dallas
is the third person to vote against the
statement because of the easing bias. So
far, we have not heard from her, but if
we get a statement, we will bring that
to you as soon as we can.
>> Mike McKee, thank you, sir. Appreciate
the breakdown. Thank you very much. The
easing bias is no longer appropriate.
The Cleveland Fed president this morning
echoed by the Minneapolis Fed president
as well.
>> With this idea that potentially having
this sort of more symmetric reaction
function could tighten financial
conditions enough to not have to make
them hike rates. So, this is sort of
some mental jujitsu for markets. Can we
get our desired goal without having to
inflict higher borrowing costs?
>> Slightly more hawkish Federal Reserve
this week. Crude prices still elevated,
yet we enter May at all-time highs on
the S&P 500, kicking off a fresh trading
month. Abhi Oda of JP Morgan Private
Bank writing, "Despite no end to the
conflict in Iran in sight, earnings
didn't blink. Companies are beating
expectations at a pace we haven't seen
in years." Abhi joins us now for more.
Abhi, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Does this mean the situation in the
Middle East doesn't matter or just
doesn't matter yet?
>> I think doesn't matter yet. Right? Like
you're not going to really in in you
know, we tried to lay out three
scenarios when this conflict originated
thinking about, you know, what would it
take for it to matter? Right? And there
is a period of time like a length that
is a duration that is important to keep
in mind. And for us that's three to six
months at these elevated prices,
particularly north of a hundred or a
hundred and twenty dollars on oil. Um
and so that's really where we're we're
more concerned if we continue to see
this extended through the summer,
particularly given, you know, the heavy
driving season. And you've already seen
that percent of disposable income for
the median consumer go up from around
three and a half percent to four percent
on gasoline. So if that continues to
move higher than that, you know, that
could that could weigh on economic
growth and and sentiment more broadly. I
think sentiment the sentiment channel is
very
>> Start to see it sentiment already.
>> Yes.
>> Consumer sentiment is really really
depressed.
>> the case for the past four or five
years.
>> Well, this is the question.
>> It's very high.
>> The question I was going to ask you, why
is that relevant because it hasn't been?
>> Well, I mean it's relevant because I
mean it's stark in the sense that it's
the lowest it's ever been and it's at
odds with what's going on from an
economic standpoint and from a you know,
what stock market standpoint, earning
standpoint because at the end of the day
what ends up happening is we look at all
these confidence measures. We want to
have some read through there, but then
when you look at the spending figures,
right? The banks all reported in the
first couple of weeks of of earnings and
nominal and spending growth is really
really solid. Like a lot of these CEOs
were like, you know what? You can't ask
us this anymore because at the end of
the day like consumers are still
spending whether they feel poorly or
not, they continue to spend. And you
know, that's the the makeup of that
spend I think has shifted, right? It's
much more services oriented in our view,
but it's still very elevated relative to
to history.
>> Has there been a shift over the past
couple of weeks? And I ask this because
Mark Zuckerberg in this letter that he
sent out at Meta said that there was a
trajectory change in Meta's ad business
after the start of the US war saying if
oil prices go up then consumers spend
more of their money on oil, on gas and
less on things that they would just buy
that are just kind of discretionary
things that the advertising might serve.
Do you see this in any kind of way or is
this an excuse?
>> Well, I mean, you haven't seen it in the
results in terms of ad spending growth
and the actual usage of these these apps
in terms of what they're spending on.
I think
what what we're worried about again is
if this stays higher for longer and it
creeps more into the confidence levels
of consumers that you start to see that
spend shift. But for the most part we
just really haven't seen it in terms of
in terms of the ad spend and and the
growth from from a lot of these mega cap
names.
>> What's the argument to go more into
equities right now after the rally that
we've seen as oil prices continue to go
higher and as yields continue to rise. I
mean, why not just cash out and kind of
have a more conservative portfolio and
just sort of sit tight and wait for the
next leg?
>> Well, so first if inflation is in fact
going higher then you are losing
purchasing power from anything that's
like short-term cash related
investments. I think the other thing to
keep in mind is we're at all-time highs
in an equity market but the valuation is
actually lower than when we started the
year and that's because we've seen
earnings revisions that are in excess of
what we've seen from a price reaction
standpoint. So for example for 1Q
earnings we started this quarter with
the expectation that earnings would grow
12%. Now with a little bit over 50% of
market cap having reported we're at
close to 20%. That is enormous and
that's the sixth consecutive quarter of
double-digit earnings growth, right? So
if you think about it these aren't easy
comps, right? We're already growing off
of a very high base and I think
obviously technology and the tech
related sectors are what's driving that
and the margin profile of the S&P 500 is
just very different than it used to be
you know 10 15 years ago. So when you're
looking at oh you know the elevated PE
of 21 to 22 times but the makeup of this
is just very different and and is worthy
of that higher multiple.
>> finish on one of your sector favorites,
something you know tons about, chips.
The rally we saw in semis, 40% move
in April. What do you tell people they
should do in that sector now after a
rally like that?
>> I mean, it's buying on strength. I think
when you really I and I think this is
part of the hard
you know, reconciling this. Like we're 3
and 1/2 years into when like this AI
cycle. And I don't think that it would
anyone would have thought that 3 and 1/2
years in the infrastructure players
would have been still the beneficiaries
of this trade, right? You would have
thought it would be the adopters and
you're seeing all of these you know, the
margin expansion story happen and play
out. But because we're so supply
constrained
in an energy constrained, it really is
that you're still seeing these these you
know, the the nuts and bolts of this
build out, those are still the winners.
And I don't foresee we don't foresee
that changing in the next you know, two,
three years really.
>> the industry for so long though, that's
why it's often so cyclical. That
initially supply constrained, they build
it out, the opposite happens, bust.
>> Particularly on the memory side, right?
>> So why is this different? Why does this
have a longer timeline?
>> Well, because I think when you when you
think about the starting like the
starting line, we just didn't have the
industrial capacity to really build out
what we need now, right? This all
happened and accelerated very quickly
and we just didn't have the industrial
base. Now there's obviously a lot of
incentives to build that out, but we're
still very far behind and I think you
know, it's really been over the last
like 8 to 10 months call it where you've
also seen it's just been this trade
around all of these different components
that go into this, right? Whether it's
optical, whether it's memory, where
those weren't really it was at first it
was just GPUs and it was just you know,
the compute, but now it's just this
broader set of inputs that are all
needed that we don't have enough of.
>> And you think people should stick with
that trade?
>> Yes. We within tech we're you know,
semis over hardware over software.
>> Okay. Abby, appreciate it. It's good to
see you. Thanks for breaking it down.
Abby Joseph of JP Morgan Private Bank.
The equity market coming into May at
all-time highs. Looking to add some
weight to it, the S&P higher by 0.2%
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yohara Asmar, hey
Yohara.
>> Hi John, we're seeing both Chevron and
Exxon shares rising in the pre-market.
Both oil majors exceeding profit
expectations [music] as higher oil and
natural gas prices outweighed production
outages from the war in Iran. Exxon is
sticking with aggressive buybacks
[music] while Chevron's smaller
repurchase pace is disappointing some
investors.
OpenAI CFO Sarah Fryer pushing back on
concerns about missing internal targets
after that Wall Street Journal report.
Fryer saying the company is meeting
objectives and that OpenAI is seeing a
quote vertical wall of demand for its
products.
And President Donald Trump says he
doesn't care if Fed chair Jay Powell
stays on as a governor after his tenure
[music] as chair ends. The president
saying he just wants to make sure Kevin
Warsh gets confirmed as the next [music]
head of the Federal Reserve.
>> That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Just turning down the heat just a little
bit over the White House with regards to
the Federal Reserve.
>> Honestly, I saw that and I
>> week, no?
>> I saw that and I was just like, who dis?
I mean, honestly
>> want to fight.
>> I Okay, but this to me, they don't want
to fight because they're taking the high
road? Well, or is there some other
reason? Are they just waiting for Kevin
Warsh to get in and then they're going
to go harder? Like, I don't really
understand.
>> I can only sort of observe what's
happening right now. I can't predict a
thing. The president could change, of
course. He could change his mind and
write a social media post in about 2
minutes time saying completely opposite.
[music]
But the trend so far seems to be
turn down the temperature just a little
bit.
>> It's There's a peace pipeline being
built between [music] the Fed and the
administration.
>> And we've got something from Axios, once
again. So, here we go. It's bullish.
Iran delivered on Thursday to the US
through the Pakistani mediators its
response to the latest [music] US
amendments on the agreement to end the
war, according to a regional source.
That crossing just now from Axios.
[music]
As those headlines cross, futures are
session highs on the equity market up by
31% on the S&P.
>> Yeah, I immediately go to a crude to see
[music] exactly what kind of reaction
there is. And you do see a little bit of
a decline. You see almost now a 2%
decline on WTI. That said,
>> [music]
>> how much can people put credence in
this? And how long will that move last
given the fact that we've been subjected
to this headline roulette for quite a
while, and people have learned that it
can be a time to lose money.
>> And the president appears to be
committed to the naval blockade at the
moment. We'll get some more headlines
for you in just a moment. We'll break
that down in about 2 minutes tonight. Up
next on the program, the morning's
calls, plus [music] Dan Ives of Wedbush
recapping a busy week for big tech. That
conversation up next.
Equity futures near session highs, up by
0.3% on the S&P 500. This from Axios
just moments ago. Iran delivering on
Thursday to the US through the Pakistani
mediators its response to the latest US
amendments on the agreement and the war,
according to a regional source. Things
just picking up [music] just a bit.
>> Yeah, although what we have seen is an
initial and knee-jerk reaction in
markets when you take a look at crude,
[music]
and then that reset because people are
looking at what this means. There isn't
necessarily a clear sense, at least in
crude, in Brent crude, [music] in WTI.
That's holding. So, you know, maybe
people are just optimistic this morning.
Maybe it's just an issue [music] of
people wanting to move on.
>> Look,
the negotiations happening in real time.
The president said yesterday only a few
people know what's going on with the
talks, [music] and he clearly knew
something that we didn't and didn't want
to share it. The one constant, I always
think about the one constant, and what
are people comfortable with? The one
constant is the naval blockade. And
based on the comments we've heard from
administration officials just this week,
[music] they seem pretty comfortable
with maintaining that blockade.
>> That said, most people seem to think
that there's some sort of deadline
because of the economic damage being
done, [music] whether it's the midterm
elections for President Trump, whether
it's political unrest for the Iranian
leadership amid hyperinflation and an
economy that's really struggling.
>> [music]
>> That's what's giving people hope that
there will be a near-term end and it's a
near-term shock as not a long-term
reality that's going to increase the
price of crude.
>> Things can change really quickly, so
that's the latest reporting and we'll
see if we hear from the president going
[music] into the opening balance. We
often do sometimes. Equity futures close
to session highs up by 1/4 of 1% on the
S&P. Crude declining. Brent down by
2/10.
>> [music]
>> WTI down by a little more than 2%.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. One stock in focus
is Apple. Barclays raising its price
target while remaining underweight
viewing third quarter revenue guidance
as quote very strong. Elsewhere, Wells
Fargo raising its target to 310
expecting focus to remain on the
management of memory and storage
inflation into the second half of this
year. And finally, Morgan Stanley
boosting its price target and staying
overweight calling Apple a quote
thematic [music] mega cap winner.
Bloomberg's Ed Ludlow joins us now for
more. Ed, are they the winner overnight?
>> Yeah, but it was a in the moment change
of fortunes all on the guidance. Third
quarter or June quarter revenues grow
14% to 17% in an environment where Apple
is very clear that demand is greater
than their ability to supply. Chips are
the constraint particularly impacting
iPhone and Mac. Memory costs are rising.
They've managed it. The margin numbers
were very strong.
And you know, Tim Cook held his cards
close to his chest on how that rising
memory environment is going to be
managed by Apple. They are the master of
putting the levers, John, aren't they?
So we didn't learn as much as perhaps we
wanted, but it was amazing to see how
quickly the sentiment of markets changed
towards Apple.
And then China a standout. You know,
really growing beyond expectations. The
surprise was the incoming CEO John
Turnus briefly appeared on the call and
said, "There's a great product roadmap
ahead. I'm not going to tell you
anything about it." But [laughter] it
was a kind of interesting moment for the
market too because either he was going
to show up or he wasn't.
>> Just a warm-up act for later this year.
I think we're going to hear more from
him, no doubt. Ed, thank you, sir.
Looking forward to the program,
Bloomberg Technology, about 3 hours away
on Bloomberg TV. Dan Ives of Wedbush
maintaining an outperform rating and a
350 price target on Apple writing, it's
all about the AI strategy. Dan joins us
now for more. Dan, welcome to the
program. Tell me more. What is the AI
strategy at Apple?
>> Look, I think that's what we're going to
find out WWDC, but I think with Gemini's
partner,
it's going to really start what's going
to be a subscription service when it
comes to the AI strategy for Apple. The
consumer AI revolution is going to go
through Cupertino. We think this could
ultimately be an incremental 10, 15
billion per year of services.
They're firing on all cylinders right
now. In terms of iPhone growth,
services, Turnas obviously taking the
baton. A lot of focus on WWDC.
I think it's going to be a golden age
for Apple as they finally monetize the
consumer AI revolution.
>> What's going to be a positive use of
CapEx, Dan, given the fact that we did
see a big increase in R&D and this
pledge to potentially have the
optionality to use their cash for some
sort of investment in the future?
>> Yeah, look, we see in terms of
investments like, you know, they've
almost been light on CapEx. And you
could say that's actually been a
positive for them. I continue to think
with Turnas at the helm, they're going
to be more acquisitive. That's another
thing that's important that we're
missing as part of that DNA in
Cupertino. When you look at the AI
strategy and you look at the install
base, they they have things that no
other company has. 2.5 billion iOS
devices, 1.5 billion iPhones. Now it's
about ultimately from acquisitions to
start to build out CapEx, partners, and
will ultimately be an AI-enabled iPhone
as we go into 2027.
>> Dan, is it a problem that all of the
tech players are paying more for less?
Essentially, they have to pay more money
for all the components that are getting
more expensive that potentially will get
more commoditized down the road, but
they're in an existential race to keep
up.
>> Yeah, look, it's it's an arms race and
these companies cannot all of a sudden
take foot off the gas cuz otherwise
they'll be on the outside looking in. I
mean, I started in Asia being there, you
know, for the last few weeks. We We see
demand and supply is 10 to 1
for chips. So, it's what they need to do
in terms of GPUs, in terms of capacity.
Now, Apple, they're in a different
position because it's on the consumer
side and obviously for for Apple, they
have the installed base. But when it
comes to CapEx, you look at big tech
this week,
this is about as bullish as you could
have gotten in terms of news of big
tech.
>> Well, Dan, with the exception of one
story and it's the doubts around OpenAI.
So, can we finish on that? What's your
read, your understanding of what's
happening inside that company at the
moment?
>> Look, I think I mean, if you look at
Anthropic, it's been a historic run that
they've had going from 9 billion run
rate to 30 billion. I think that
definitely caught many by surprise and I
think at OpenAI, they were top of the
mountain. They got bullseye in the back
and now they have to really focus on the
enterprise. But in my opinion, they will
be one of the core stalwarts over the
coming years. It's not just going to be
about Anthropic. They're just going
through some perceived speed bumps, but
I think now they'll navigate and I think
getting this trial over will be
important, too, in terms of the soap
opera between Musk and Altman.
>> What do you call that game, Brema?
Tic-tac-toe?
>> I guess so.
>> In the UK, we call it noughts and
crosses. Is that what that is?
>> Well, I don't know. I I think we need to
do a special segment. Where in the world
is Dan Ives?
>> Dan, is that what you're wearing? Is
that tic-tac-toe?
>> It is It's tic-tac-toe. It's a bullish
tic-tac-toe.
>> All right. Thought so. Dan, thank you.
Dan Ives there of Wedbush Securities,
distracted by the new outfit.
>> Yeah.
>> You did not notice the getup.
>> I've always [laughter] noticed the
getup. I mean, it's probably his own
personal
his own personal
brand, right? Doesn't he have his own
brand that he designs himself?
>> Yes, he does. Yes, he does.
>> no, I was distracted by the headlines
because I was
Yeah, I was actually I'm so sorry. I was
actually reading the news. I apologize.
Uh but we are getting from the state-run
Iranian media that that they did give
Pakistan its latest proposal for US
talks and that the text of the proposal
was delivered Thursday. So, some real
meat behind this saying at least
potentially talks are on the table. Both
sides in the room is a positive for a
lot of people in the market.
>> The talks continue.
>> Yeah.
>> The diplomatic effort moves on and let's
see if they make some actual progress
here.
>> Yeah, I was also distracted by this
headline. Uh the call with Exxon is
going on. Darren Woods, the CEO there,
saying it will take 1 to 2 months for
flows to reestablish after the strait
reopens. So, we're trying to kind of
game out a timeframe here even if the
talks are successful. How long would it
take for A, flows through the Strait of
Hormuz to restart and B, how long would
it take for the oil prices to really
come down as a result of supply picking
up? All of these things are going to be
gamed out. The physical world versus the
>> [music]
>> the paper world is really in contrast.
>> a bit of pushback against the potential
for an export ban as well. Exxon saying
this, that export bans [music] and price
caps will result in less supply. The
latest from Exxon so far this morning.
Up next, we'll catch up with Alejandro
Giraldo of Net Davis Research saying
there's still a chance for a rate cut
later this year.
The open bell about 60 minutes away.
Equities looking to add some pretty
stellar gains through the month of
April. Welcome to May. Equities features
up by 3rd of 1% on the S&P, [music] on
the Nasdaq up by a 10th of 1%, on the
Russell half by 0.2. In the commodity
market, pulling back down by 2% on WTI.
Brent crude just a little bit softer as
well. Some movement in this market
supportive of risk appetite [music] in
the last 10-15 minutes. Let's get you an
update on the latest in the Middle East.
Tanaya Khandelwal joins us from
Washington with more. Hey, Tanaya.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, some
potential progress here as Iranian state
media confirms that the country has sent
an updated proposal to the US through
Pakistani mediators. Now, we don't have
information on exactly what changes were
made, but it is our understanding that
earlier this week the plan that Iran had
put on the table was deemed unacceptable
by the US. As you will know, Iran has
floated the idea that we could see a
reopening of the Strait of Hormuz in
exchange for the US lifting its naval
blockade. Iran also wanted some other
concessions according to Iranian state
media including assurances that the US
won't attack again, compensation for
damages, and a legal framework for the
Strait of Hormuz, many of which are
considered to be non-starters for US
negotiators. But, perhaps the biggest
lingering non-starter that was put out
there earlier this week was that Iran
wanted to see dialogue postponed when it
came to its nuclear program. So, we'll
be watching to see if maybe there's been
any sort of progress in that regard
considering the White House made it
pretty clear that they don't want to
agree to a deal without some sort of
curbs being put forward when it comes to
Iran's nuclear capabilities because
John, as you well know at this point,
this White House is maintaining that it
that naval blockade is not going
anywhere. Just yesterday President Trump
called it, quote, "incredible" and said
that the US maintains that it will
continue to squeeze Iranian oil exports.
>> Tanaya Khandelwal with the latest.
Tanaya, thank you. Appreciate the
update. A story to watch as we approach
the opening bell to see what kind of
response we get from the US side. Not
sure what time the president received
that particular proposal either from the
Iranians.
>> Yeah, and whether he has signed off or
whether he wants talks to continue. At
what point do they think they have
sufficient leverage to really go into a
discussion especially considering that
both sides view each other as unreliable
and a lot of negotiators have complained
about this issue.
>> Let's turn to the US economy. The data
so far this week has been pretty decent.
Next week we'll get payrolls data. This
week the Federal Reserve coming this
close to dropping its easing bias with
the latest Mike McKee is back with us
for more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Not close enough
according to those Fed officials who
voted against this week's decision. We
brought you that at 8:00. We will see if
we get any more dissenters out there or
people talking in the weeks ahead. But
this week did move us forward a little
bit because Kevin Warsh's hearing was
held and the Senate Banking Committee
voted to advance his nomination to the
floor. Now it's just a question of when
they can get floor time. They're off
next week, so it may be the week after.
The Fed stayed on hold as you were
talking about. In terms of the economy,
we got a little stronger GDP than we did
in the fourth quarter led by AI business
spending. If that keeps up, it keeps the
economy afloat. Consumer spending
falling back a little bit and inflation
at 4-year highs, especially gasoline
prices, is that going to cut consumer
spending even more? We'll get some ideas
next week. We have a lot of data. It's
the first week of the month and that's
when we get jobs. That's the number one
story and that'll be Friday, but we also
get ADP on Wednesday, jolts on Tuesday.
So some jobs numbers scattered
throughout the week. ISM manufacturing's
coming up at 10:00 this morning, but ISM
services next week. We'll see what the
employment sections and prices sections
of those reports are.
Then we turn to the Fed. They are back
next week. The blackout period is over
and we've heard, as I said, from Neil
Kashkari and Beth Hammack this morning.
Next week we get a lot of them. John
Williams on Monday and we get
Mickey Bowman and Michael Barr Tuesday,
Mester, Solomon, Goolsbee Wednesday,
Hammack, John Williams again on
Thursday, and then Friday out at the
Hoover Institution's annual conference,
Chris Waller, Mickey Bowman, Mary Daly,
and uh Austin Goolsbee, and we will be
out there to bring you all the news from
that conference.
>> Looking forward to your coverage, Mike.
Looking forward to it. Thank you, buddy.
As always, great work this week. When
Mike was speaking, I was sitting here
thinking,
was that hearing really this week with
Kevin Warsh? Was that earlier this week
on Tuesday? It was like a lifetime ago.
>> I don't think we can characterize these
weeks as weeks. I think each week can be
its own year, and we should really treat
it as such considering the news. But
you're right.
It's a very fast-moving timeline, and
it's a very fast-moving cycle, and I
wonder what those speeches are going to
be like of Fed officials given the fact
the Kevin Warsh influence is looming
very large paired with the influence of
a Governor Powell who potentially could
be on that committee taking a super low
profile, but has the potential to be a
dissenter.
>> I've joked all this year so far that the
week has felt one long like one long
trading day that starts on Sunday
evening and ends on Friday, and you get
one day off. It's Saturday. Just one
exceptionally long trading day. In fact,
the month felt the same way as well,
hasn't it?
>> It's been a wild ride, and everyone who
walks into this studio has said, "What
an exhausting week. What an exhausting
year." The non-stop barrage of
information and having to respond to it,
and frankly, the changing market
structure in response to all of this has
been mind-numbing.
>> If we can, can we bring up that calendar
again of all the Fed speak next week?
Now the quiet period is finished.
There's tons of it. I'm just going to
pick out one. The one guy I'm looking
forward to hearing from, not that I
don't like everyone else on the board,
but just the one person, Governor
Waller. I want to hear from the people
that aren't married to a particular
policy.
I want to cut rates. I don't want to cut
rates. And it doesn't matter what
happens, I want to cut rates. I don't
want to cut rates. Want to hear from
Governor Waller because his views seem
to have changed recently about this
economy. He was very close to voting for
a rate cut not so long ago because of
what was happening with the labor
market. Something changed, and we know
what that something is. It's the Middle
East.
How comfortable is he with current
policy, with the easing bias? Is that
changing for him as well?
>> Does he reflect what we heard from Neel
Dutta and from others who also seem to
be shifting toward a Fed that should not
be cutting rates? Does he have a similar
kind of feeling? Maybe not a rate hike,
but this idea that maybe the easing bias
needs to go away. Also, he might have
really good tips on weightlifting
because I've heard he is quite a quite
the heavyweight.
>> The deadlift.
>> I mean
>> He can lift a lot of weight. I think Is
it 370 lb or something like that?
>> posted it on his social media post. So
if you want to take a look, it is out
there for a while.
>> Happy birthday to Governor Waller, by
the way, whose birthday was earlier this
week. Alejandro Guedel of Ned Davis
Research writing, "We expect the Fed to
stay on hold in the near term, but there
still is a chance for rate cut later in
2026." Alejandro joins us now for more.
Alejandro, welcome to the program. What
has to happen to get that rate cut?
>> Well, a lot of Thank you for having me
again. So a lot of I would say perfect
things have to happen. As I said, like
neutral is where we are at this point in
time, no change. The economy, it's, you
know, hanging in there, not booming, but
hanging in there. Labor market is
reasonably balanced. Long-term inflation
expectations appear to be anchored. So
just sort of that wait-and-see mode
makes sense. But yeah, that there is
actually a potential pocket for a rate
cut maybe in Q4, so later in the year.
So a few things have to happen. One is
one that I don't think any of us have a
solution to, but it's the war needs to
end relatively soon. In other words, we
can't have these high oil prices for a
long period of time, these supply chain
disruptions, because it can have
knock-on effects and sort of start
getting into core prices. So that's
that's one thing, and we don't have a
clear answer on that. The other thing is
we need to see that long-term inflation
expectations do remain anchored. They
are so far, so that needs to maintain in
place.
Remember also, most of us were looking
for before the war for inflation to ease
in the second half of the year, um
partly because of the base effect from
tariffs. So we should be able to see
some of that. And then, that's from the
inflation story, but from the labor
market story, this is something we'll be
watching pretty closely. Right now,
labor market looks pretty good. We
expect just sort of a normal payrolls
gain to be around 50,000. That's kind of
the new normal, the Goldilocks we talked
about last time. But, come summer,
there's a possibility that we have a lot
of grads coming out of um university,
whether it's undergrad or graduate
school, and with some of the uncertainty
associated with the war, um also AI
perhaps taking over some of these
entry-level jobs, we could see quite a
few months of labor market softness. So,
I don't think 1 month will make the
change, but if you see quite a bit of
it, um and all those other factors from
the inflation story kick in, there is a
path for rate cutting, I would say,
toward the end of the year. But again,
not not guaranteed.
>> the path. What's the likelihood? And
that's the more important question. Is
it just as likely we could see a rate
hike because some people on the Fed want
to communicate that?
>> So, I think it's more likely to see a
cut than a hike. Um and with the hike to
happen, again, it it's all predicated on
the war, right? So, if the war lasts for
a long period of time, and we start
seeing those long-term inflation
expectations, particularly the
market-based ones, I think I've done a
good job, if those really start breaking
out, then I think, you know, hike and
and again, the economy kind of holds in
there, um I think the hike is is what
what what would potentially happen, but
kind of the scenario that I laid out,
maybe I'm optimistic about the war maybe
ending somewhat on the sooner side, um
then I think the cut's the more likely
scenario.
>> Well, Alexandra, there's a tension, and
it keeps emerging as we talk with people
on Wall Street who discuss the
incredible earnings by corporate
America, the incredible resilience, the
incredible growth in the prospects for
profitability, at the same time that
people talk about the lackluster growth
in the underlying economy and the labor
market. At what point do you listen to
the corporates as a guide for what's
going going to the economy? And at what
point are these things on two tracks or
even companies profiting at the behest
of the labor market, at the behest of
some of the profits by employees?
>> Well, I mean, I think this is a lot of
the trend that we've been seeing even
last year is where you have um companies
doing well, they're spending a lot,
maybe not hiring as much, but not firing
either. And then the knock-on effect on
equity markets is boosting that wealth
effect, and you have that high-end
consumer. I think that's been a constant
theme sort of supporting the economy. Um
I think it just argues for a
continuation of that K shape that we
talked about before, and even more so
now with these affordability concerns.
Um ultimately, this means that this is
an an economy, using a technical term,
that has weak breath. Um it's not
necessarily a bad thing. Um I would say
another period where we had a very long
extended K-shaped recovery was actually
um the post-GFC, pre-pandemic period. It
lasted for a long period of time. But
the problem is is when you have an
economy that's led by such weak breath,
if that indicator, you know, in this
case it's CapEx and AI spend, if that
breaks apart, um then everything comes
down with it. So, it just makes it more
vulnerable to downside risk if it's
hanging its hat on that one area of
growth.
>> How much are people entertaining the
idea that the reverse happens? That
suddenly a lot of companies that haven't
hired for a long time start re-hiring or
hiring more people, and people are more
productive, and they start earning more,
and you start to see, you know, the
individuals who do get hired,
and you start to see a much better than
expected economic backdrop going forward
at the same time that there's an
inflationary shock. I mean, how high is
the bar to potentially hike rates in a
scenario like that?
>> Um maybe not until say next year, but I
love your optimism because we actually
kind of went into the year viewing
things that way. Um we expected actually
a broadening of CapEx. Um maybe some of
the tariff uncertainty would subside a
little bit. Um the OBA would help a
little bit. Uh the Fed, remember, was
expected to ease for sure, and that
would lower interest rates and then
allow investment spending to, you know,
go to a broader degree. So, you know,
there's still possibly a path toward
that, um but I don't think the Fed's
going to move to hiking, um if inflation
sort of ends up in a good position,
because your argument was that um you
see an expansion, a rise in
productivity, and if we see faster
productivity growth, then, you know,
holding all else constant, we shouldn't
have higher inflation pressures, and
then we're just sort of you know, back
to this ideal Goldilocks scenario.
>> Lisa, optimistic. Hey, what an
accusation.
>> I just I just sent you a message. I love
your optimism. Words I'll never hear
again.
>> Alejandra, thank you. Just for the
record, she's taking a long weekend.
Taking Monday off. Alejandra Gandara of
Ned Davis Research.
>> Yeah, taking my mom out for her
birthday. Look,
>> I love that. Happy birthday, Mom.
>> Yeah, thank you. I appreciate it. It's
sometimes important to reset, you know,
amid all the crazy, but I will say, uh
you know, I want to be optimistic. I I
have some people at home telling me that
they're long technology over humans. I
see the flow of things, so, you know, I
I'd like to see that.
>> know. In the family,
on a relative basis,
>> I'm the optimistic one.
>> You are the optimist.
>> 100%. Although, they are optimistic
about technology, so, that's great, but,
you know, negative on humans.
>> Let's get you an update on news
elsewhere. Unreal. With your Bloomberg
brief, Ye-Hwa Has Mah. Hi, Ye-Hwa.
>> Hi, John.
>> [music]
>> Axios reporting that Iran has delivered
its response to the latest US proposal
to end the war. Iran state media
confirming it delivered the text of the
response to Pakistani [music] mediators.
No details yet on the response have been
made public.
Novo Nordisk is rebranding its [music]
diabetes pill as Ozempic in the US,
leaning on the brand recognition of its
blockbuster drug. Novo will make the
pills in the US [music] and sell them to
patients through its direct-to-consumer
platform and select telehealth
providers.
And in sports, the Minnesota
Timberwolves are moving on to [music]
the second round of the NBA playoffs
after beating the Denver Nuggets in six
games, the Philadelphia 76ers are
heading back to Boston for a decisive
game seven and the New York Knicks
eliminating the Atlanta Hawks after
[music] winning game six by 51 points.
>> That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
[music]
>> Yohai, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next, we'll catch up with the NASA
administrator, Jared Isaacman, following
a successful Artemis 2 mission. Plus,
Yohai is back with your morning movers.
Another check on Apple rising after
earnings impressed. That stock [music]
is up by 3.6%.
>> We're seeing companies really basically
stepping back and saying, [music] "How
do I think about my supply chain?" We're
seeing a lot of the companies move from
just-in-time
and thinking about production
resiliency.
>> [music]
>> That by definition means you're going to
run a far more expensive and a far more
diversified supply chain and a far more
resilient supply [music] chain.
>> That was Shamin Akelik of Citi weighing
in on the situation in the Middle East
and the shift we've seen for global
businesses to just-in-time to something
very, very different and slightly more
costly. [music]
>> Just-in-time to just-in-case, which is
cost for money and needs a different
type of technology. You can't send your
money over and wait three days for them
to [music] receive it if you're dealing
with rapid-fire supply chains that are
shifting in real time.
>> Equity futures this morning shifting in
real time positive by 0.2% on the S&P
500 following the biggest monthly gain
[music]
going back to 2020 on the S&P 500. On
the Nasdaq 100, you've got to go back to
2002 for a gain as big or bigger than
the 16% [music]
gain we got on the Nasdaq 100 just last
month. This morning, down a tenth of 1%.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Yohai has more. Hi,
Yohai.
>> Hi, John. Apple really blowing it out of
the water as the last tech name to
report. Shares are up 3 and 1/2% in the
[music] pre-market, but Apple making it
clear that its results would have been
even stronger if it weren't for those
supply constraints around memory. But,
Bloomberg Intelligence points out that
may be the reason it's making strides in
China since its competitors [music] have
had to raise prices due to those higher
memory costs. And for that same reason,
it is surprising to see these names down
in the pre-market. SanDisk and Western
Digital both falling even after
delivering a beat [music] and a raise,
but the bar was just too high with uh
SanDisk up 300% year-to-date. Western
Digital up 130%.
>> [music]
>> And we end on shares of Estee Lauder
soaring at 11 and 1/2% in the pre-market
after the beauty giant raised its profit
outlook helped in part by job cuts
announcing [music]
another 3,000 today bringing the total
to up to 10,000. [music] John.
>> Yohaiho, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. President Donald Trump hosting
the Artemis 2 astronauts at the White
House this week. The visit coming
[music] nearly a month after their
historic trip around the moon. I'm
really pleased to say that in the studio
here in New York City, the NASA
administrator Jared Isaacman. Jared,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. It's great to be here.
>> The pictures are amazing. I understand
it costs a lot of money. Can you explain
to all of us what we actually achieved
in the last month?
>> Well, I would I would uh consider that
Artemis 2 is part of a much bigger plan.
So, President Trump during his first
term created the Artemis program,
America's commitment to return to the
moon. My first day on the job, he signs
a national space policy that says pick
up where Apollo 17 left off, return to
the moon, but go back to stay this time,
build an enduring presence,
>> Good luck.
>> build a moon base, which I I mean, it's
going to be a hub for scientific
discovery, economic potential. Maybe we
have a lunar economy someday, but it
will be the technological proving ground
for where we go next, which is Mars. So,
all part of a bigger plan. Artemis 2 is
just the opening act. In the period of
time
>> we have changed space exploration a lot.
We've introduced commercial space
exploration. What does that mean for the
role of NASA as we try to achieve these
things?
>> And it's interesting. I get that
question all the time because there are
some new names. Uh you have your
SpaceX's and Blue Origins that get
everyone's attention. It's like, where
does NASA fit in? I remind folks, you go
back to the 1960s, you had Boeing, you
had McDonnell Douglas built the Gemini
spacecraft, you had uh Grumman that
built the lander that put the astronauts
on moon. Many of those players still
exist today, but we have some new ones,
SpaceX, Blue Origin. NASA's at its best
when we are doing the near impossible.
What no other agency, company, nation in
the world is capable of accomplishing,
and when we figure it out, if NASA can
be one customer of many, we hand it off
to industry and let competitive dynamics
make it better, cost less. Launch is a
great example right now. Dozens of
companies brought down the cost, put
mass in orbit materially. NASA
recalibrates. Like that picture you had
on the screen, which was a
nuclear-powered spaceship.
industry should be playing with. They
don't need to mess around with highly
enriched uranium launch, you know, uh
reactors over Earth. That's something
that NASA is capable of doing. So, we
recalibrate again back to the near
impossible, the capabilities allow us to
explore the outer solar system.
>> about the space race down back in the
'50s and '60s and how much that put
grants in all sorts of academic centers
to try to get up new scientists, to get
them into exactly that kind of thing. Is
that Is this kind of what we're
replicating here?
>> Well, I'd like to think, and I just told
this to Congress this past week, is
every dollar you give us, inherent in it
is inspiration. So, of course, the
rockets
>> What I should get out of my head.
>> the rockets, the astronauts walking on
the moon, the X planes, the images that
come back from James Webb Space
Telescope or our rovers on Mars. But
that's that's not enough, right? That's
enough to spark the interest, you know,
more kids dressing up as astronauts for
Halloween, but we still have a huge
grant portfolio that goes out to to
university. We have a top internship
program right now. We take the top 1% of
internship applications. And what I like
about our moon base program right now,
we're going to have landers on the moon
on a near monthly cadence starting in
early 2027. We could raid the pantry at
every NASA center for science
instruments. There won't be enough. So,
what does that mean? There's kids in
universities right now in the United
States and across the world that are
working on hardware that's going to be
on the moon in the years ahead.
>> There's an argument, why focus on space
when we have a lot of problems here on
Earth to fix. Can you give us a sense of
some of the scientific progress that's
coming from some of these programs that
has real world application beyond just
necessarily hyper scalars on the moon?
>> Sure. Well, I mean, first, we've been
hearing, you know, this since the 1960s,
too. And what I would say, it's a
different
different budgetary environment now
versus then. So, 1960s, NASA was about 4
and 1/2% of the discretionary budget.
We're about a quarter of a percentage
now. So, I would argue we can do both.
We can make investments into a brighter
future for the, you know, for the world
we want our children to to grow up in
and try and address some of the
hardships, the affordability, the
challenges of the world we live in
today. And does it matter? For sure.
Inspiration is a price worth paying for
the next generation to take us even
farther. Scientific, economic potential.
I mean, you go to the moon, what could a
lunar economy look like someday? I mean,
whether we are 3D printing satellites
like you described, or maybe we're
mining helium 3 that could have quantum
implications, or future
or future fusion power source
a source of future fusion power.
Not to mention just like knowledge. I
mean, what do we stand to learn and
gain? We've only just begun this great
adventure.
>> Can you achieve these goals with budget
cuts? That's the questions you've faced
all through the last few weeks.
>> Well, I guess and I'll tell you the same
thing I told Congress on that is you
can't just look at the president's FY 27
budget request without taking it in
combination with the historic $10
billion investment that came from the
working family tax cut act. That one big
beautiful bill, President Trump's
signature legislation. You take that $10
billion plus 26 appropriations plus 27.
What can we do? We can go back to the
moon. We can do it with frequency. We
can build the moon base. We can launch a
giant nuclear powered interplanetary
spaceship and do all the other things.
>> You've been to space. Not once, but
twice, right?
>> Yes, sir.
>> I don't have the imagination that you
have about what this could be. When I
hear things like data centers in space,
I'm like, these guys are crazy. I just
haven't flexed that muscle. I was never
into sci-fi. What could this be? What do
you tell people? How imaginative do you
need to be?
>> Well, let let me let me hit that on two
points. One, what where do you know,
what have I what is my takeaway from
coming back from space more twice at
this point? We are at with respect to
even exploring our solar system, let
alone the galaxy that you know, or the
or the two trillion other galaxies out
there. We're at the equivalency of
hollowing out a log and using it to
float across a pond. Like that is where
we are at in this great adventure. It is
so early. You I mean, you've no idea
where this is going to take us in years
ahead. And then, how do we get there?
Well, a space economy sure would be
great because I don't think we're going
to have that sci-fi future with lots of
space stations and orbital outposts and
a Mars base, if it's entirely paid for
by the taxpayers. So, I want data
[snorts] centers in space to work. Why
not take advantage of a giant fusion
reactor that's already out there? I want
uh you know, I want us three I want us
3D printing organs. I want us making
cancer-curing drugs in in microgravity.
I I want all that to come to fruition.
We can't force it into existence at
NASA, but we can do all we can to ignite
it.
>> You know, when Jared walked into the
studio, one of my first questions to him
was, you've made lots of money. You've
had this great successful life in
private business. Why do you want to go
into government? I've I've never heard
someone so excited in their job in
government.
>> He feels like he can make a difference.
I don't know. It's very exciting to
hear. I wish I could hear you talk for
the rest of the hour, frankly, because
to me, this is really the exciting stuff
where we can actually innovate and uh
find new places. Do we want to find
aliens though? Do we actually want to
find other life? I don't think so.
>> Personally, I don't.
>> I Why why would they want to
>> No, no, this is the heart of what we do
at NASA is to answer the question, are
we alone? Okay. Are we?
I I don't know how across two trillion
galaxies that we are not. I I I when I
have this conversation with a lot of
folks, and we have missions out there,
right? We're launched a a probe to uh
Europa called Europa Clipper looking for
biosignatures. We're launching a
nuclear-powered octocopter to Saturn's
moon of Titan to look for biosignatures.
We have samples [music] in tubes on
Mars. And if we bring those back, we we
put in a better 90% chance of finding
life out there.
>> And you know what the conspiracy
theorists are going to say? They pulled
the plug. They pulled the plug to go to
light speed. [laughter]
>> He was He was about to say that after
that.
>> He was about to say it.
Jared, thank you, sir.
>> Absolutely. Thank you very much.
>> Jared Isaacman there, the NASA [music]
administrator.